#The Big Question: What is the Biggest Impediment to Democratic Governance in Sub-Saharan Africa?#August 6, 2019#To further explore issues raised in the Journal of Democracy’s July 2019 cluster of articles on “Aspirations and Realities in Africa,” the International Forum for Democratic Studies asked five leading experts their opinion on the single biggest challenge to good governance in sub-Saharan Africa. (Their answers have been edited for length and clarity, and do not necessarily reflect the views of the National Endowment for Democracy.) Nana Ama Agyemang Asante is co-host of the “Citi Breakfast Show” (CBS), a highly popular, public-interest radio show broadcast daily on the Accra-based station Citi FM. She is also deputy online editor of Citi FM’s news website, www.citifmonline.com, supervising the publication of timely stories and helping to direct national attention toward a range of social issues, including minority rights. Follow her on Twitter @JustNanaAma. Despite the growth of democracy and the creation of numerous anti-corruption institutions, corruption continues to undermine governance processes across the African continent. It is estimated that Africa annually loses over $50 billion through illicit flows and $148 billion through corruption. Ghana alone loses about GhC 13.5 billion through corruption, with many citizens having to pay bribes before accessing basic public services. In fact, the 2018 Global Corruption Barometer found that more than one in four people on the continent paid bribes for public services. Various studies show that this pervasive corruption is due to the nature of politics, weak institutions, and the lack of campaign finance laws. Most countries operate a system where political parties in power reward supporters with state resources and contracts.The consequences of widespread corruption is evident in the poor delivery of social services, high levels of poverty and unemployment, and other problems. Corruption also threatens stability and undermines institutions and the rule of law, making it difficult for the people to profit from the dividends of democracy. A recent Afrobarometer survey found that most Africans support democracy but are dissatisfied with the performance of their governments. The dissatisfaction stems from the failure of African governments to deliver social and economic goods.Given that democracy is on the decline elsewhere in the world due to poor governance, African governments will have to vigorously address corruption by strengthening anti-corruption institutions and reforming judiciaries and other oversight institutions.Corruption also threatens stability and undermines institutions and the rule of law, making it difficult for the people to profit from the dividends of democracy.– Nana Ama Agyemang Asante, Citi FMEmmanuel Gyimah-Boadi is co-founder and Executive Director of Afrobarometer, a pan-African survey research project that tracks public opinion on political, economic, and social developments in African countries. He is also a co-founder and former Executive Director of the Ghana Center for Democratic Development (CDD-Ghana), an independent, non- partisan, and non-profit policy research and advocacy group on democratic governance. Read his July 2019 Journal of Democracy article on “Aspirations and Realities in Africa: Democratic Delivery Falls Short,” and follow him on Twitter @gyimahboadi.Abundant anecdotal and empirical evidence indicates strong and deepening popular demand for the type of governance that features transparency, accountability, the rule of law, and term-limited presidencies. Daily developments on the streets, in the courts, and on social media across Africa point to the presence of a large pool of citizens and citizen groups determined to protect the democratic governance gains of the past twenty years and work towards democratic consolidation. However, many of the continent’s incumbent presidents and political parties do their best to thwart these popular aspirations. Unwilling to relinquish authoritarian control, they block reforms that would curb permissive constitutional arrangements and strengthen institutional checks and balances; and some launch efforts to jettison or weaken constitutional limits on presidential tenure. African political leaders are, therefore, without doubt, the biggest impediment to democratic governance on the continent.These good governance-resisting elites are significantly enabled by national constitutions bereft of constitutionalism and a reliance on economic and symbolic power in the presidency and executive branch of government, and by domestic political economies characterized by government dominance over the formal economy and a weak private sector (which confers enormous patronage dispensation advantages on the president and ruling party, fueling their state and democracy “capture” schemes). Additionally, today’s external environment abets African domestic elites’ determination to frustrate their citizens’ aspirations for democratic governance. The continent’s regional institutions and leadership display ambiguity in the enforcement of the democratic governance standards contained in their own charters. Western nations have retreated from emphasizing democratic governance principles in their development assistance programs (in favor of geostrategic interests such as competing against China, stemming migration, and fighting terrorism). And China and other emerging global powers are vigorously courting African leaders by providing them with military and development assistance without political reform “conditionalities.”These good governance-resisting elites are significantly enabled by national constitutions bereft of constitutionalism and a reliance on economic and symbolic power in the presidency and executive branch of government.– Emmanuel Gyimah-Boadi, AfrobarometerAyo Obe is a legal practitioner and a partner in the Lagos-based law firm Ogunsola Shonibare. She chairs the Board of Trustees of the Gorée Institute and is a trustee of the Brussels-based International Crisis Group. She also served as the Chairperson of the Steering Committee of the World Movement for Democracy. Read her July 2019 Journal of Democracy article on “Aspirations and Realities in Africa: Nigeria’s Emerging Two-Party System?” and follow her on Twitter @naijama. It is challenging to list a single impediment to good governance in sub-Saharan Africa. The need for better levels of transparency, integrity, and accountability among African political leaders is fairly universal across the continent. In Nigeria and other places, serious, targeted investment in infrastructure, especially electricity and rail transport, as well as in meaningful, modern, and compulsory primary education for children, would improve the standards of living among African publics. Finally, security agencies dedicated to the safety and security of citizens, rather than to the survival of the government in power, are key to civic life across the continent.The need for better levels of transparency, integrity, and accountability among African political leaders is fairly universal across the continent.– Ayo Obe, Ogunsola ShonibareJon Temin is the director of the Africa program at Freedom House, overseeing the organization’s efforts to advance democracy and human rights across the continent. From 2014 to 2017, he was a member of the Departments of State’s Policy Planning Staff, providing strategic guidance and long-term thinking to the secretary on Africa issues. Follow him on Twitter @JonTemin and read his July 2019 Journal of Democracy article on “Aspirations and Realities in Africa: Ethiopia’s Quiet Revolution” (with Yoseph Badwaza).Minimal accountability of government officials to African citizens impedes good governance more than any other single factor. This is far from unique to Africa, but is pronounced in some countries on the continent, especially where government leaders do not derive their legitimacy from popular support.  Instead, some earned their positions through force and the legacy of rebellion, by ascending within a dominant political party, or through elections of questionable legitimacy. Because they did not come to office on the back of popular support, and once in office do not depend on popular support—especially when they have a monopoly on the use of force and engage in grand corruption—leaders feel little pressure to respond to citizen demands and adapt to public sentiment. The lack, in many countries, of a functional and broad tax system (especially where government revenues are derived largely from natural resources) compounds this problem: citizens do not feel bought-in to government, because they pay little into government and get little out of it, while leaders do not need their tax payments to fill state coffers.  All of this leads citizens to reduce their expectations of government, leaving some resigned to the notion that government will rarely deliver on their demands, and that it is not accountable to them.The good news, however, is that these dynamics are changing.  Peaceful mass protests in Africa are accelerating, and in some cases, such as Sudan, leading to change at the top. Citizens are demanding more accountability from their leaders, including through transparency and service delivery.  As these expectations change, and leaders see some of their counterparts forced from office, pressure on governments to deliver results will grow.Because they did not come to office on the back of popular support, and once in office do not depend on popular support—especially when they have a monopoly on the use of force and engage in grand corruption—leaders feel little pressure to respond to citizen demands and adapt to public sentiment.– Jon Temin, Freedom HouseEmeka Umejei is a visiting assistant professor of communication and multimedia design at the American University of Nigeria. He has written extensively on Chinese media and Chinese digital infrastructure in Africa, and currently is completing a book on Chinese media in Africa. Follow him on Twitter @emekaumejei.Chinese party-state influence over African media development is among the biggest impediments to good governance. There are largely three components of China’s Belt and Road Initiative: economic, digital infrastructure, and the media. The economic aspect encompasses trade, investment, and loans; the Digital Silk Road is a digital component through which the Chinese government seeks to expand its digital footprint in Africa; and the Belt and Road News Network (BRNN) is a partnership between China’s state-led media organizations and more than 182 media organizations in 86 countries, including several in Africa.While the first component has attracted much attention, the other two have been treated more lightly. Because China’s digital infrastructure could bring about an authoritarian model of the internet that encourages autocratic governance in Africa, it is important for African political actors to consider the long-term impact of this infrastructure. For instance, what would become of Chinese digital infrastructure such as Huawei’s 5G network if the internet diverges into American and Chinese versions, or into American, Chinese, and Russian versions? In addition, if the expansion of Chinese media into Africa has raised a cause for concern, the BRNN is more alarming. The BRNN represents China’s first attempt at reinforcing the Chinese media model through a partnership with African media organizations. Africans are more likely to believe their own media organizations when they deliver the CCP’s propaganda than when Chinese media does. The combined effect of China’s digital infrastructure and the BRNN would be far-reaching in Africa. This would mean that issues such as democracy, freedom of expression, human rights and political pluralism may be curtailed on the continent, resulting in the emergence or consolidation of African leaders that are not responsible to their electorates.Because China’s digital infrastructure could bring about an authoritarian model of the internet that encourages autocratic governance in Africa, it is important for African political actors to consider the long-term impact of this infrastructure.– Emeka Umejei, American University of NigeriaA Q&A discussion with George Sarpong on defending media freedom during Ghana’s digital migration.A Q&A discussion with Rafael Marques de Morais on kleptocracy in Angola.Two Power 3.0 blog posts by Emeka Umejei: “The Imitation Game: Will China’s Investments Reshape Africa’s Internet?” and “Will China’s Media Influence African Democracies?”“Democratic Activism and the Battle Against Modern Kleptocracy,” a Power 3.0 blog post by Dave Peterson. Image Credit: Arthimedes / Shutterstock.com A number of Latin American countries are in the midst of turmoil. Brazil has...The April 2018 edition of the Forum newsletter explores...The Washington Post editorial board discussed the findings...
#International Forum for Democratic Studies June 2019 Newsletter#July 1, 2019#The first working paper in the series, authored by Kurt Bassuener and entitled “Pushing on an Open Door: Foreign Authoritarian Influence in the Western Balkans,” explores the growing influence of Russia, China, Turkey, and the Gulf States in the Western Balkans, particularly in the media sphere.The second working paper, “To Catch a Kleptocrat: Lessons Learned from the Bien Mal Acquis Trials in France” by Tutu Alicante, captures the story of how Equatoguinean Vice President Teodoro Obiang was convicted of kleptocracy-related offenses in France. It draws insight from this example to offer lessons for civil society organizations interested in using strategic litigation to combat transnational kleptocracy.Similar content can be viewed on the Forum’s blog, Power 3.0: Understanding Modern Authoritarian Influence, and its related podcast. “The Biens Mal Acquis case demonstrates that collaboration among local and international civil society organizations in all aspects of the effort—media and awareness raising, investigation, advocacy, and the litigation itself—is critical to winning the struggle against kleptocracy.”  The April 2019 issue of the Journal of Democracy features a set of five articles by activists and scholars reflecting on implications of the 1989 protests in Tiananmen Square for China today. The Journal also celebrates the launch of its new website.On June 5, NED Vice President for Studies and Analysis Christopher Walker testified before the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations on ways China is eroding and corrupting democratic standards around the world.On April 26, the International Forum co-hosted an event with the Council of the Americas and Americas Quarterly to discuss China’s new agenda for engagement in the Americas, particularly in the region’s media, education, and ideas sphere.On June 4, the International Forum’s Senior Director Shanthi Kalathil testified before the Congressional-Executive Commission on China and the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission on the Chinese party-state’s manipulation of the information space.Melissa Aten of the International Forum for Democratic Studies spoke with Ilya Lozovsky about OCCRP’s recent “Troika Laundromat” investigation and the vital role collaborative journalism played in combatting transnational kleptocracy.Ronald J. Deibert discusses the dramatic shift in perceptions of social media and how a more problematic underside of social media has come into view that may have the effect of fueling authoritarianism.In their recent blog post, Eileen Donahoe and Megan MacDuffee Metzer argue that a shared global framework is needed to ensure that artificial intelligence is developed and applied in ways that respect human dignity and democratic accountability.On June 11, Reagan-Fascell Fellow Joshua Olufemi highlighted the progress and persistent challenges in leveraging data for good governance, and provided recommendations on how expand the use of data for democracy in Nigeria.“In an era of globalization, the struggle over fundamental values is being waged in every region and across diverse polities. How this battle plays out will define the character of the world we live in.”   Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellow Oludotun Babayemi examined...Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellow Martin Krygier critiqued existing ways of thinking...
#Defenders of Human and Religious Rights in China to Receive 2019 Democracy Award on 30th Anniversary of Tiananmen Massacre#May 21, 2019#National Endowment for Democracy to Honor Uyghur, Tibetan, and Chinese Christian ActivistsThe National Endowment for Democracy (NED) will honor defenders of human and religious rights in China with its 2019 Democracy Award at a June 4th ceremony in the U.S. Capitol, exactly 30 years after the massacre of pro-democracy demonstrators in Beijing in 1989. The ceremony will take place from 5:00 -7:00 pm in room HC-5 of the Capitol. Confirmed speakers include House Republican Conference Chair Rep. Elizabeth Cheney (R-WY), Rep. Joaquin Castro (D-TX), and Rep. Mike McCaul (R-TX). Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi will also address the event.The 2019 Democracy Award Honorees are:See brief descriptions of each organization and their representatives at the end of this release.The Chinese Communist Party (CCP) has been practicing and perfecting its tools to erase identity and dissent, largely with impunity within its claimed borders. Marginalized groups, such as religious and ethnic minorities, have been the primary target for the CCP’s repression, and they have been on the front lines of contestation.“The 2019 Democracy Award honors three groups who are working at the forefront of one of the most important human rights struggles of our time,” said NED president Carl Gershman. “We have seen the reports of millions of Uyghurs imprisoned in China’s internment camps and the abuses that are carried out there,” said Gershman. “We know the history of China’s nearly 70 years of brutal repression in Tibet; and we are now seeing the increased persecution of Christians and the destruction of churches as part of an all-out campaign against religion in China. We honor these three groups that are fighting back against the CCP’s systematic crackdown aimed at erasing their identities and history, and for their resilient efforts to preserve their freedom of belief, their language, their culture, and their most basic rights.”The Endowment will also host a conference on June 3, “China’s Repression Model: Tiananmen, Today, Tomorrow,” from 12:00 – 2:30 pm at its office at 1025 F St, NW, 8th floor, Washington, DC 20004. The agenda features opening remarks by U.S. Ambassador-at-Large for International Religious Freedom Sam Brownback and U.S. Senator Robert Menendez (D-NJ), ranking member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. One panel will feature a moderated conversation with the honorees, Dolkun Isa, Lhadon Tethong, and Bob Fu. A second panel about China’s export of repressive tactics and technology and activists’ efforts to resist the encroachment of authoritarian norms will feature expert analysis by Xiao Qiang of China Digital Times, Sophie Richardson of Human Rights Watch, and the Taiwanese civic tech activist known as Ttcat.These events are open to the media. Credentialed journalists must register in advance with NED public affairs by email: press@ned.org.The National Endowment for Democracy is a private, nonprofit, grant-making organization created in 1983 to strengthen democratic institutions around the world. It is active in more than 90 countries, supporting grassroots democratic initiatives. More information about NED and the Democracy Award can be found at www.ned.org.About the Honorees:Founded in April 2004 in Munich, Germany, after the East Turkistan National Congress and the World Uyghur Youth Congress merged into one united organization, the World Uyghur Congress (WUC) promotes democracy, human rights, and freedom for the Uyghur people and supports the use of peaceful, nonviolent, and democratic means to help Uyghurs achieve self-determination. WUC is the sole representative organization of the Uyghur people globally and has made crucial contributions in bringing attention to the CCP’s crushing campaign of physical, religious, linguistic, and cultural repression against the Uyghur people.Founded in 2009, the Tibet Action Institute (TAI) brings together digital communication tools with strategic nonviolent action to strengthen the capacity and effectiveness of the Tibet movement in a digital era. TAI’s team, comprised of technologists and human rights advocates, develops and advances open-source communication technologies, nonviolent strategies, and innovative training programs for Tibetans with a particular focus on digital security and harnessing the power of digital technologies.Founded in 2002, ChinaAid is an international non-profit Christian human rights organization committed to promoting religious freedom and the rule of law in China. Over the past 17 years, ChinaAid has worked to expose human rights abuses and promote truth, justice and freedom by advocating for religious freedom and the rule of law. ChinaAid advocates for the immediate release of prisoners of conscience, equips human rights defenders and religious and community leaders with religious freedom and rule of law training, rescues and resettles persecuted leaders and their families, provides financial assistance to families of political prisoners, and exposes abuse by reporting unique stories of persecution and injustice through its website and social media.CONTACT: Jane Riley Jacobsen (202) 378-9604 w I (703) 801-5376 m I jane@ned.orgShanthi Kalathil delves into China's unprecedented attempts to harness the global...Read Madeleine Albright's introductory remarks at NED's...The January 2019 issue of the Journal of Democracy...The National Endowment for Democracy (NED) will present...Remarks given at the "Two Decades of US-Taiwan Relations"...Shanthi Kalathil testified before the U.S.-China Economic and Security Review...
#Presentation of Democracy Service Medal to Senator John McCain#May 8, 2019#Remarks made by NED Chairman Andrew H. Card, Jr. at IRI 2019 Freedom DinnerTuesday, May 7, 2019Good evening,It is my great pleasure to join you tonight to pay an overdue tribute to the longtime leader and champion of IRI, my friend, Senator John McCain.I joined the National Endowment for Democracy as NED’s new Chairman in January 2018.  John had returned to Arizona and was fighting for his life when the Endowment decided it needed to honor him – to let him know how much his leadership and solidarity meant to us – and more importantly, to all those on the front lines of the struggle for democracy whom he supported so tirelessly.We struck this medallion last year – the date on the back says 2018 – but sadly, we did not have an opportunity to present it.  We are so grateful to our friends and colleagues from IRI, and to the McCain family, for allowing us to make this presentation this evening.NED’s Democracy Service Medal was first awarded to the former Polish President and Solidarity leader Lech Walesa and the former AFL-CIO President Lane Kirkland in April 1999 on the 10th anniversary of the roundtable agreement that led to the peaceful transition to democracy in Poland 30 years ago.  The Medal has since been presented to many distinguished individuals, such as the late Czech President Vaclav Havel and the Dalai Lama, who have also shown immense dedication to the cause of democracy and human freedom.John McCain, who has been celebrated for his bravery and personal courage, was also one of the great freedom fighters of the modern era.  He was a champion of democracy wherever it was being challenged and needed his support.  His powerful voice inspired dissidents and political prisoners everywhere and gave them confidence by letting them know that they were not alone.  As a result, his death was mourned by democrats in Russia and Ukraine, in China and Burma, in Cuba and Venezuela, and in Egypt, Iran, Zimbabwe, and so many other countries, both large and small.Senator McCain was also a decades-long friend of the National Endowment for Democracy.  As you all know, IRI is one of the Endowment’s four core institutes, and as IRI’s chairman for more than a quarter century, John McCain did an enormous amount of work to build support in the U.S. Congress for NED’s mission and work.  For that invaluable support, the Endowment and all those we support are forever grateful.John McCain was a proud American, and he made countless others proud to be American.  In remembering John McCain, we pledge ourselves to continuing the fight for freedom to which he devoted his life.It is my great honor as Chairman of the National Endowment for Democracy to present posthumously to Senator John McCain the Democracy Service Medal in recognition of his historic contribution to the cause of democracy and human freedom.Thank you.Remarks by Dr. Judy Shelton, Vice Chairman of NED. The National Endowment for Democracy (NED) presented...Because Jean has given service to that notion, with...The National Endowment for Democracy is proud to honor...The National Endowment for Democracy has awarded the Democracy Service Medal...
#International Forum for Democratic Studies June 2019 Newsletter#July 1, 2019#The first working paper in the series, authored by Kurt Bassuener and entitled “Pushing on an Open Door: Foreign Authoritarian Influence in the Western Balkans,” explores the growing influence of Russia, China, Turkey, and the Gulf States in the Western Balkans, particularly in the media sphere.The second working paper, “To Catch a Kleptocrat: Lessons Learned from the Bien Mal Acquis Trials in France” by Tutu Alicante, captures the story of how Equatoguinean Vice President Teodoro Obiang was convicted of kleptocracy-related offenses in France. It draws insight from this example to offer lessons for civil society organizations interested in using strategic litigation to combat transnational kleptocracy.Similar content can be viewed on the Forum’s blog, Power 3.0: Understanding Modern Authoritarian Influence, and its related podcast. “The Biens Mal Acquis case demonstrates that collaboration among local and international civil society organizations in all aspects of the effort—media and awareness raising, investigation, advocacy, and the litigation itself—is critical to winning the struggle against kleptocracy.”  The April 2019 issue of the Journal of Democracy features a set of five articles by activists and scholars reflecting on implications of the 1989 protests in Tiananmen Square for China today. The Journal also celebrates the launch of its new website.On June 5, NED Vice President for Studies and Analysis Christopher Walker testified before the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations on ways China is eroding and corrupting democratic standards around the world.On April 26, the International Forum co-hosted an event with the Council of the Americas and Americas Quarterly to discuss China’s new agenda for engagement in the Americas, particularly in the region’s media, education, and ideas sphere.On June 4, the International Forum’s Senior Director Shanthi Kalathil testified before the Congressional-Executive Commission on China and the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission on the Chinese party-state’s manipulation of the information space.Melissa Aten of the International Forum for Democratic Studies spoke with Ilya Lozovsky about OCCRP’s recent “Troika Laundromat” investigation and the vital role collaborative journalism played in combatting transnational kleptocracy.Ronald J. Deibert discusses the dramatic shift in perceptions of social media and how a more problematic underside of social media has come into view that may have the effect of fueling authoritarianism.In their recent blog post, Eileen Donahoe and Megan MacDuffee Metzer argue that a shared global framework is needed to ensure that artificial intelligence is developed and applied in ways that respect human dignity and democratic accountability.On June 11, Reagan-Fascell Fellow Joshua Olufemi highlighted the progress and persistent challenges in leveraging data for good governance, and provided recommendations on how expand the use of data for democracy in Nigeria.“In an era of globalization, the struggle over fundamental values is being waged in every region and across diverse polities. How this battle plays out will define the character of the world we live in.”   Jonathan Hartlyn is the senior associate dean for social...The International Forum for Democratic Studies outlines...Recent English and Chinese-language articles published online by PRC government-controlled...
#Lessons Learned from the Biens Mal Acquis Trials in France | An International Forum Working Paper#June 11, 2019#The National Endowment for Democracy’s International Forum for Democratic Studies is pleased to announce the release of a new working paper, “To Catch A Kleptocrat: Lessons Learned from the Biens Mal Acquis Trials in France,” authored by Tutu Alicante.This publication is part of an International Forum working paper series, examining the dynamics and impact of resurgent authoritarian influence in the era of globalization, including through networked transnational kleptocracy and manipulation of the global information space. For more on these themes, visit the Forum’s blog, Power 3.0: Understanding Modern Authoritarian Influence, and its related podcast.Transnational kleptocracy is a form of networked state capture in which political elites redirect state resources for their own benefit, launder their ill-gotten gains through the international financial system, and spend it in settings protected by the rule of law. Today, kleptocracy represents one of the most complex challenges to democracy around the world. In order to protect their ability to loot their own countries, these elites neutralize efforts to hold them accountable, effectively sidelining independent civil society or media. This dirty money also has harmful effects in the places where it is laundered and parked, corroding democratic norms, rule of law, and regional and international organizations.Since kleptocratic elites deliberately weaken independent accountability in the countries where the theft occurs, victims of kleptocracy have little recourse for achieving justice domestically. Instead, strategic litigation in outside courts offers greater promise for pursuing justice. At the same time, these complicated legal processes require a transnational coalition of actors in order to be effective.Over the last decade, a groundbreaking case of strategic litigation made its way through the French courts. In the Biens Mal Acquis (“ill-gotten gains”) case, French prosecutors set their sights on the leaders of Congo-Brazzaville, Gabon, and Equatorial Guinea for assets acquired on French soil. These assets were allegedly purchased with ill-gotten gains and involved fraud or money laundering, based on the vast gap between elites’ official salaries and the amount of wealth held by them and their families in France. On October 27, 2017, Equatoguinean Vice President Teodoro Nguema Obiang became the first actively serving foreign senior official to be tried and convicted in French courts on charges of diverting corruptly acquired funds into investments on French territory. He was given a three-year suspended sentence.For civil society groups pursuing strategic litigation against kleptocrats in their countries, the case against Vice President Obiang provides several important lessons to consider: Image Credit: Tatiana Popova / Shutterstock.com The April 2018 edition of the Forum newsletter explores the latest issue of...Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellow Joshua Olufemi highlighted...Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellow Martin Krygier critiqued...The International Forum for Democratic Studies explores...The International Forum for Democratic Studies asked...Please join the Council of the Americas, Americas Quarterly, and the National...
#Shanthi Kalathil Testifies Before Congressional-Executive Commission on China on “Tiananmen at 30: Examining the Evolution of Repression in China”#June 10, 2019# I would like to thank the Congressional Executive Commission on China, the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission, and the House Foreign Affairs Committee for the opportunity and privilege of presenting testimony here today.On this day, we grapple with the events of Tiananmen – both the hope and the bloodshed – and their legacy thirty years later. Part of that legacy is an unsettling disconnect. Even as people have grown more connected, and our collective access to information has expanded exponentially, there has been a curious muffling surrounding the world’s remembrance of June 4th. Over the years, as vigils diminished and stories grew more hushed, a Tiananmen Square-sized gap emerged not only inside China, but outside as well.The excising of Tiananmen not merely from Chinese history but from the world’s collective memory is, in fact, no accident. As Reuters recently reported, Chinese internet firms now use machine learning, image and voice recognition to detect and block Tiananmen-related content, with previously unimaginable levels of both accuracy and automation. Tiananmen – alongside a broader swath of topics deemed sensitive to the Chinese Communist Party – has disappeared down what the scholar Glenn Tiffert, borrowing from Orwell, calls the CCP’s memory hole, with pernicious effects on the entire historical record. Tiffert has documented how Chinese academic databases have redacted their holdings and sanitized historical narratives to serve present political purposes. The effect is not limited to the technological realm: two authors who have written about Tiananmen, Louisa Lim and Ilaria Maria Sala, have noted “how successful the party-state has been in pathologizing reporting on Tiananmen, seeding self-regulating, self-censoring mechanisms, even among foreign journalists.”This memory hole constitutes just one aspect of a vast apparatus designed to shape the broader information ecosystem around the world, in ways that will help solidify the CCP’s rule at home as well as reshape the global order to favor this outcome. This apparatus – which encompasses the party-state’s vision and direction, the firms engaged in developing technology, the application and popularization of that technology, the regulations governing its use, and the setting of future standards – is hardly a flawlessly functioning machine, even within China’s borders. It is not impervious to economic shocks, shifting political winds, or bureaucratic inefficiency and infighting. Yet its cumulative impact both within and outside China’s borders is likely to reinforce authoritarian norms and institutions, and undercut democratic ones, on a global basis.The Chinese party-state is keenly aware of the transformative, value-laden role of information, and has always viewed the harnessing of information as fundamental to its power. It successfully – and against all expectations at the time – centrally steered the country’s entrance into the modern information age in the early 2000s, allowing for the gradual, widespread, and innovative spread of the internet while managing the political impact of its use. Initially linked to modernizing economic production, the term “informatization” (信息化) gradually became synonymous with a complete rethinking of how information technology would both penetrate and power economic, political and social development. This indicates a party-state that, rather than simply fearing information, fears even more the implications of not mastering it.With the advent of new tools, informatization has proved crucial in the implementation of China’s modern surveillance state, with some observing that it is impossible to overstate informatization’s role in the development of public security intelligence over the past twenty years. With the introduction of artificial intelligence (AI), informatization has been joined by the newer “intelligentization”(智能化), with its corresponding augmentations and implications. Even the projection of capabilities that might not actually exist yet represents the logical development of longstanding CCP thinking on information, surveillance and social control, predating the advent of modern apps and social media.As AI evolves and becomes seamlessly integrated into the normal functioning of society, it will become increasingly invisible – and thus, in societies that are not alert to its ramifications, increasingly open to abuse. Crucial questions about democratic rights and standards are correctly being asked and debated in democracies by policymakers, companies, developers, scholars and activists. China’s authoritarian system, however, restricts what type of questions are allowed to be asked about the praxis and governance of technology, who gets to ask those questions, and, ultimately, who decides. It is cause for concern when “standards for research on the latest technological frontiers are being set by a government that has always prioritized power over ethics,” writes physicist Yangyang Cheng. For technologies designed to both disappear into and dictate the rhythms of everyday life, the effect may be to imperceptibly manipulate debate and shape individual behaviors in an increasingly targeted way, buttressed by millions of data points that enable previously unimagined specificity. More than that, it will present those affected by CCP-guided AI enhancement – including not only Chinese citizens, but millions around the world who may be wittingly or unwittingly participating in Chinese government affiliated smart city projects – with an imperceptible fait accompli that subjects them to the standards of the CCP information ecosystem.This is not only of relevance in the far future. To some extent, it is happening already, including with the platforms that are widespread within China and around the world. Existing platforms such as WeChat have become indispensable for Chinese citizens, providing the allure and convenience of deftly integrated communication, services and amenities – even as this convenience is backed by an equally seamless surveillance and censorship apparatus. With these platforms increasingly being used in Australia, Canada, and elsewhere for news, political communication and other purposes, it is imperative that users understand and interrogate these issues, not simply through the lens of consumer benefits, business models or economic competition, but through the prism of implications for rights and governance. Economic liberalization failed to bring political liberaliation to China, which...Carl Gershman, President of NED, spoke at "Exploring...The National Endowment for Democracy will honor defenders...Joseph Nye and Shanthi Kalathil joined the Pacific...Shanthi Kalathil delves into China's unprecedented attempts to harness the global...
# “China’s International Influence on Democracy”#June 5, 2019#Testimony before the United States Senate Committee on Foreign RelationsChristopher Walker, Vice President, Studies & Analysis, National Endowment for DemocracyJune 5, 2019I would like to thank Chairman Risch, Ranking Member Menendez, and the other esteemed members of the Committee for the opportunity and privilege of presenting testimony on the critical subject of the impact of China’s international engagement on democratic institutions, principles, and ideas.For many years now, the paramount authorities in Beijing have tightened their grip on Chinese society. At home, the Chinese Communist Party has taken steps to intensify its control of media and free expression, and has sharpened repression more generally. The authorities have enhanced their ability to do so through the application of modern technologies.China in the post-Tiananmen era has been viewed by external observers through an economic development lens. The democracies’ headlong rush into unconditional—rather than measured and principled—engagement with China has resulted in evident problems. The central assumption was that by deeply engaging the People’s Republic of China (PRC) and other such regimes and welcoming their integration into the global economic system and key international political institutions, the autocracies would be encouraged to move in the direction of meaningful political reform. But this approach has not turned out as we had anticipated.Rather than reforming, China has deepened its authoritarianism, and in an era of globalization is now turning it outward. Thus, we are at the same time facing systems integration and systems competition. Although China today intersects in many ways with the global system, it has not become more transparent and accountable under the CCP’s rule; rather, it has developed policies and practices that can corrode and undermine democratic standards.[1]For too long, observers in free societies have viewed trends within China as divorced from developments beyond the PRC. But this narrow view is misguided and until now has contributed to a dangerous sense of complacency. In an era of globalization, Beijing has internationalized its authoritarianism in ways that affect all of us. On this important anniversary of the brutal crackdown on Tiananmen Square, we are obliged to reflect on the China that has emerged over the past three decades and on how the country’s leadership is pursuing its ambitions beyond its borders.A critical aspect of China’s development is the massive resources the authorities have invested in modern technology. Such investments over the years have been central to the repression in the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region, which is functioning now as a technology-animated police state.[2] As China scholar Samantha Hoffman notes, investment by the Chinese authorities in other parts of China, including in Tibet, over an extensive period of time has enabled the building of the formidable arsenal of surveillance that today is evident in the Uyghur Region.[3]In an environment without meaningful checks on state power, the Chinese authorities have wide latitude for testing ever more elaborate methods of censorship and social management. As powerful technologies exert greater influence, the U.S. and other democracies are engaged in complex and difficult debates involving civil society, government, and academia over issues of privacy, surveillance, and security. Such debates, for all practical purposes, do not occur in China, opening up an enormous space for systematic abuse of the kind that has taken shape in Uyghur Region. As machine learning and other technological advances accelerate, the precision with which the Chinese government will be able to modernize censorship is bound to grow. Indeed, today the Uyghur Region itself serves as an incubator for the testing and development of cutting- edge technological tools of repression that invariably are feeding back into other parts of the PRC, but also having an impact beyond China’s borders, including in Latin America and Africa.[4]Apart from the sphere of technology, Beijing has refined and scaled up its instruments of influence and, with them, its ability to manipulate the political landscape in other countries. As the leadership in Beijing has become more repressive domestically, China has grown more ambitious internationally in ways that are anathema to democratic values and the rule of law. Such behavior is at direct odds with the notion of China as a “responsible stakeholder.”A New Era of ContestationIn this new era of contestation, China has claimed a larger role on the global stage and has sought to promote its own preferred ideas, norms, and approaches to governance. Beijing’s unexpected ability to carry out digital censorship, to use economic leverage to mute voices in the democracies, and more generally to influence democratic systems abroad has created a need for fresh ways of thinking about and dealing with this new situation.As China’s leadership has placed greater importance on shaping the political operating environment overseas, it has spent many of billions of dollars over the past decade to shape public opinion and perceptions around the world.Although information is increasingly globalized and internet access is spreading, China and other authoritarian states have managed to reassert control over the realm of ideas.[5] In China, the state keeps a firm grip on the media environment, and the authorities in Beijing use digital technologies to press their advantage at home and, increasingly, abroad.Under the direction of the Chinese Communist Party, China has established platforms abroad for educational, cultural, and other forms of influence within open societies. Over time, it has become clearer that such initiatives tend to be “accompanied by an authoritarian determination to monopolize ideas, suppress alternative narratives, and exploit partner institutions,” what is now understood as “sharp power,”[6] an approach to international affairs that typically involves efforts at censorship and the use of manipulation to degrade the integrity of independent institutions.[7]The authorities in Beijing have cultivated economic leverage as a tool for getting others to play by their rules. Beijing’s approach seeks to reduce, neutralize, and preempt any challenges to the CCP regime’s presentation of itself. Its state-funded research centers, media outlets, people-to-people exchange programs, and network of Confucius Institutes often mimic civil society initiatives that in democracies function independently of government. Meanwhile, local partners and others in democracies are often unaware of the logic that underpins China’s foreign policy and how tightly the Chinese authorities control social groups, media, and political discourse at home.Today, the corrosive effects of China’s influence beyond its borders are increasingly apparent in a number of crucial domains, including publishing, culture, academia, and media—sectors that are essential for determining how citizens of democracies understand the world around them. China’s influence activities aim to discourage challenges to its preferred self-presentation, as well as to its standing or its policies. Limiting or muting public discussion of issues deemed unwelcome by the Chinese party-state is a critical characteristic of sharp power.[8]MediaHaving learned to manage political ideas within their own countries, authoritarian regimes are now bending globalization to their own ends by manipulating discourse abroad, especially in the wide-open information space afforded to them by the democracies. Massive investments in overseas media infrastructure play a central role. China has scaled up a multifaceted effort to shape the realm of ideas.State dominance over political expression and communication is integral to authoritarian governance. Such control enables the promotion of favored narratives across media platforms, as well as through the words of state officials and surrogates. In an era of global information saturation and fragmentation, the authorities in Beijing understand the “discourse power” that can be exercised through focused and amply funded information initiatives. As the PRC’s media platforms expand and its largest internet firms go global, Beijing’s ability to curate information in a systematic and selective manner will only grow stronger, especially in places where local media organizations are vulnerable.One such place is Africa.[9] There, China has made major investments in media infrastructure, and Chinese censorship tactics are being deployed in matters that Beijing deems sensitive. Throughout sub-Saharan Africa, Chinese state-media outlets have bureaus with two sets of editors: There are African editors on the local payroll, but a group of Chinese editors in Beijing vets their decisions, at least regarding stories that the PRC feels strongly about. The Chinese government gives African journalists “training” and brings them to visit China. Real journalism education, however, is not the goal. Instead, the focus is on taking in Chinese achievements (cultural sites, big infrastructure projects) and on learning how to report from the Chinese government’s perspective.[10]This is part of a global pattern that is also visible in Latin America. China’s president Xi Jinping has said that he wants to bring ten thousand Latin American politicians, academics, journalists, officials, and former diplomats to China by 2020.[11]One example relevant to the United States was reported in November 2015, when it came to light that China Radio International (CRI), Beijing’s state-run radio network, was operating as a hidden hand behind a global web of stations on which the Chinese government controls much of the content. According to a Reuters investigation, 33 stations in 14 countries “primarily broadcast content created or supplied by CRI or by media companies it controls in the United States, Australia, and Europe.” As part of this elaborate Chinese-government effort to exploit the open media space, more than a dozen stations across the United States operate as part of the CCP’s “borrowed boat” approach, in which existing media outlets in foreign countries are used to project China’s messages.[12]Through its formidable global media apparatus more generally, China is spreading messages abroad, using a variety of tools, about alternatives to democracy as models of governance, how the media can be controlled, and value-neutral internationalist positions in debates on issues such as internet governance.Confucius InstitutesChinese authorities portray the Confucius Institutes as being similar to the British Council or the Goethe-Institut, both of which receive government funding to give language and culture classes. Yet unlike those freestanding organizations, the Confucius Institutes are embedded within educational institutions, most of which are committed to the type of free intellectual inquiry that is impossible at Confucius Institutes themselves.Many casual observers of the Confucius Institutes might not realize that the Confucius Institutes’ constitution, found on the website of Hanban (the Chinese arm of the government that directs them), implies that Chinese law applies within the premises of the Institutes.[13] Moreover, the Confucius Institutes employ staffers who at times have sought to block host universities from holding discussions on sensitive topics such as Taiwan or Tibet.[14]Little about these institutes is transparent; it is hard to say, for instance, what amount of Chinese government money goes to individual host universities. It is also unclear what level of control universities have over curricula within the Institutes because the agreements between these parties often remain confidential.[15]Incubating and Sharing Technology Toward Repressive EndsBeijing’s considerable influence is increasingly evident in the digital space. China and other autocratic regimes have applied the online tools and techniques that they have refined for domestic use internationally as well. As noted at the outset of this statement, many of the techniques that are applied abroad are first incubated at the domestic level by the Chinese authorities. Through the online censorship system known as the Great Firewall, Chinese authorities have long been able to manage and restrict what China’s people—the world’s largest number of internet users inside a single set of national borders—can access when they go online. Now the government is increasingly applying machine learning to combine censorship and surveillance into comprehensive social management, a development that will increasingly impact global freedom of expression.[16]Beijing’s paramount aim, it seems, is to exert control over key information spheres and the tools for manipulating thoughts, images, and ideas. Its management model is centralized and unitary.[17] As the authorities in Beijing deepen their artificial intelligence (AI) capacities, including through massive data collection, they are likely to apply these technologies to devise ever more precise methods of social management, including predicting individual behavior and potential collective action.A recent case in Ecuador suggests some of the potential risks. Ecuador’s negotiation under President Rafael Correa of a Chinese-financed loan to acquire surveillance equipment and technology to power its ECU-911 monitoring system took place in the absence of meaningful public debate, and civil society is only now in a position where it can begin to grapple with the potential ramifications of such an extensive system that has already been put into place. There is evidence to suggest that the ECU-911 system is being used to monitor civil society activists and critics of the government, much as these systems are used in China.[18]In China, the companies responsible for developing these technologies are not only partnering with the state security apparatus, but are intertwining themselves within key institutions in democratic societies, giving them an increasing stake in the platforms and algorithms that determine speech on a worldwide basis. China’s ambition to become a global powerhouse in big data, AI, and other emerging technologies has significant ramifications for democratic governance globally, yet much of civil society involved in the governance of emerging technologies has yet to engage on this issue in a meaningful way.[19] Democracies have yet to develop a comprehensive response to China’s plan to build digital infrastructure across key parts of the globe, creating a “Digital Silk Road,” and allowing China immense power over the future of the digital world.The Corrosive Effects of Authoritarian CapitalMany emerging and vulnerable democracies face challenges in governing foreign direct investment, including weak accountability in public spending, opaque corporate governance, poor procurement oversight, and lax anti-corruption enforcement. These challenges are easily exploited by authoritarian regimes intent on using state-connected financial resources for reasons other than development or mutual economic benefit, leading to potentially disastrous outcomes for open and democratic governance. When investment and foreign assistance is part of a meaningful public discussion involving civil society in developing economies, the effect can be to strengthen such essential features of democratic governance as citizen voice and participation, and transparency and accountability. If the authoritarian-linked firms and institutions driving the capital flows ignore or even undermine liberal-democratic values and concerns, however, the durability of democratic governance can suffer, corruption can flourish, and authoritarianism can find fertile ground.In regions such as the Western Balkans where the interests of local political elites, who retain power by catering to key patronage networks, overlap with China’s high tolerance for corruption, Beijing’s way of doing business exacerbates existing problems surrounding transparency and accountability.[20] The situation in Central Europe and the Balkans, where young, aspiring or vulnerable democracies predominate, is also relevant. In countries throughout those regions there are indications that China has sought to utilize various forms of capital inflows, including equity, debt, and aid, to achieve geostrategic aims and divert the region from a trajectory of integration into the community of democratic states. Regional initiatives, such as China’s “16+1” initiative (now “17+1” since the recent addition of Greece to this grouping) to strengthen bilateral ties with primarily former Eastern Bloc countries, offer Beijing an easy alternative to dealing with the EU as a whole.[21]In countries where projects under BRI auspices have turned sour, its combining of infrastructure financing with geopolitical aims has raised doubt and opposition. In December 2017, for instance, the government of Sri Lanka admitted its inability to repay the US$8 billion that it had borrowed from Chinese firms to build a deepwater port at Hambantota, handing the project to Beijing on a 99-year lease in an instance of what critics have called “debt-trap diplomacy.” In other cases, Chinese financing for infrastructure projects under the BRI have seen countries take on unsustainable debt levels for projects of questionable economic viability. For example, in Montenegro a project financed by China’s Export-Import Bank to link the coastal port of Bar by road to Serbia has been dubbed “the highway to nowhere” after the government could not afford to take out further loans to complete the overruns of the project.[22]Opacity and Secrecy as NormsSuch deals with China tend to be characterized by an essential lack of transparency. This opacity allows China to work with partners who have few other options because of their poor credit ratings and reputation for corruption, and also, by agreeing to inflate project cost, Beijing is able to funnel a portion of its investment to influential elites in partner governments.[23] Patterns across regions and sectors have taken shape that illustrate the extent of the problem. Several other recent cases have come to light, for instance, which demonstrate how Beijing’s preference for working directly and exclusively with executive branch elites in its engagement with foreign governments and how this can have had a corrosive effect on the integrity of institutions and governance more broadly.When Panama and El Salvador switched diplomatic recognition from Taiwan to the People’s Republic of China, key government, private sector, and civil society actors were kept in the dark until after official announcements were made. In the case of El Salvador, its congress has launched an effort to review and halt the advancement of an accompanying agreement to establish a special economic zone that would comprise 14 percent of the country’s territory in strategic areas along the coast and give preferential benefits to Chinese firms.[24] Only a few weeks ago, more than a dozen other agreements that the El Salvadorian president had reached with China were made public for the first time, spanning from promoting the Belt and Road Initiative, to scientific and technological cooperation, and educational exchange, among others. In all of these cases, civil society and policymakers have been forced to play catch up in order to understand the implications of how such agreements may impact their countries and to retrofit monitoring and accountability mechanisms.In Argentina, a deal reached with the Cristina Kirchner administration saw the People’s Liberation Army given a fifty-year lease to build and operate a space observation station with dual-use capabilities in Patagonia. After recent reporting revealed the agreement provided the Argentine government with no mechanisms for oversight or access to the station,[25] Argentina’s national congress launched an investigation and is seeking to revisit the agreement.[26] In Africa, agreements on major deals also fit the pattern.[27]The pattern of China’s engagement that has taken shape globally has not eluded the U.S.In recent years, reports of influence that were once episodic have become more frequent as journalists and other observers have begun to look more closely; the patterns of opacity and manipulation that have characterized China’s engagements in other parts of the world have come to light here. China’s Influence and American Interests, a report produced by the Hoover Institution and the Asia Society and released in November 2018 found that “in certain key ways China is exploiting America’s openness in order to advance its aims on a competitive playing field that is hardly level. For at the same time that China’s authoritarian system takes advantage of the openness of American society to seek influence, it impedes legitimate efforts by American counterpart institutions to engage Chinese society on a reciprocal basis.”This report further observed that “China’s influence activities have moved beyond their traditional United Front focus on diaspora communities to target a far broader range of sectors in Western societies, ranging from think tanks, universities, and media to state, local, and national government institutions. China seeks to promote views sympathetic to the Chinese government, policies, society, and culture; suppress alternative views; and co-opt key American players to support China’s foreign policy goals and economic interests.”[28]Acknowledging, and Competing in, the Emerging Contest over ValuesGiven China’s rapid emergence on the world stage and its more visible authoritarian internationalism, it seems we are approaching an inflection point. If anything, the challenge presented by China and other ambitious, internationalist autocratic regimes has grown in the most recent period. At the same time, the democracies are only slowly waking up to the fact that they have entered into an era of serious and strategic contestation based on governance models.The conflict over values that has taken shape globally is one between autocratic regimes, on the one hand, whose animating governance principles favor state control, management of political expression, and privileging “rule by law” over rule of law, versus democratic systems, on the other, whose principles are based on open societies, free and independent expression, and rule of law. In an era of globalization, the struggle over these fundamental values is being waged in every region and across diverse polities. How this battle plays out will define the character of the world we live in.To date, much of the response to the China challenge from the democracies has focused on the trade and military dimensions, both of which properly deserve attention. But we must deal with the fact that much of Beijing’s activity in recent years may be related to but is distinct from these domains. In order to compete, the U.S. and other democracies will need to address this gap in the sphere of values. And at a fundamental level, any response to this global challenge also needs to consider the essential importance of democratic development in China itself.Developing a Comprehensive Response to the China ChallengeGiven its corrosive impact on critical democratic institutions, China’s authoritarian internationalism poses both a rule-of-law and a national security challenge. The following are key steps, drawn from the International Forum for Democratic Studies’ sharp power report, which can be taken to address the Beijing’s influence efforts:Address the large knowledge and capacity gap on China. Information concerning the Chinese political system and its foreign policy strategies is limited in many of the societies where China is deeply engaged. This asymmetry places societies at a distinct strategic disadvantage. There often are few journalists, editors, and policy professionals who possess a deep understanding of China—the Chinese Communist Party, especially—and can share their knowledge with the rest of their societies in a systematic way. Given China’s growing footprint in these settings, there is a pressing need to build capacity to disseminate independent information about China and its regime. Civil society organizations should develop strategies for communicating expert knowledge about China to broader audiences.Deepen understanding of authoritarian influence. China’s sharp power relies in part on disguising state-directed projects as commercial media or grassroots associations, or using local actors as conduits for foreign propaganda or tools of foreign manipulation. To respond to these efforts at misdirection, observers need the capacity to put them under the spotlight and analyze them in an independent and comprehensive manner.Move beyond transparency. Enhancing transparency as a way of safeguarding democratic societies against undesirable Chinese party-state influence is a necessary but insufficient step. Once the nature and techniques of authoritarian influence efforts are exposed, countries should build up internal defenses. Authoritarian initiatives are directed at cultivating relationships with the political elites, thought leaders, and other information gatekeepers of open societies. Such efforts are part of Beijing’s larger aim to get inside such systems in order to incentivize cooperation and neutralize criticism of the authoritarian regime. Support for strong, independent civil society is essential to ensuring that the citizens of democracies are adequately informed to evaluate critically the benefits and risks of closer engagement with Beijing and its surrogates.Prioritize democratic solidarity. Beijing and its surrogates are exerting pressure on independent institutions within free societies to an extent that would not be imaginable during the Cold War. The leadership of institutions essential to the functioning of the public sphere within democratic societies—publishers, university administrators, media and technology executives, and others—in the past did not need to take into account to such a degree the prospect of manipulation or censorship by external authoritarian powers. Today, however, the exertion of sharp power makes it necessary for them to renew and deepen their commitment to democratic standards and free political expression. To address this challenge, common standards must be developed, with the aim of reducing these institutions’ exposure to divide and conquer dynamics in order to safeguard their integrity over the long term.Accelerate learning through cooperation with democratic partners. A number of countries, Australia especially, have already had extensive engagement with China and can serve as an important point of reference for countries whose institutions are at an earlier stage of their interaction with Beijing.[29] Given the complex and multifaceted character of Beijing’s influence activities, such learning between and among democracies is critical for developing responses that are not only effective but consistent with democratic standards.[1]Christopher Walker, “Authoritarian Regimes are Changing How the World Defines Democracy,” Washington Post, June, 13 2014, https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/christopher-walker-authoritarian-regimes-are-changing-how-the-world-defines-democracy/2014/06/12/d1328e3a-f0ee-11e3-bf76-447a5df6411f_story.html[2] Chris Buckley and Paul Mozur, “How China Uses High-Tech Surveillance to Subdue Minorities,” New York Times, May 22, 2019, https://www.nytimes.com/2019/05/22/world/asia/china-surveillance-xinjiang.html; “How Mass Surveillance Works in Xinjiang, China,” Human Rights Watch, May 2, 2019, https://www.hrw.org/video-photos/interactive/2019/05/02/china-how-mass-surveillance-works-xinjiang; Gerry Shih, “‘Police Cloud’: Chinese Database Tracks Apps, Car Location and Even Electricity Usage in Muslim Region,” Washington Post, May 2, 2019, https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/chinese-database-is-tracking-cellphone-usage-car-location-and-even-electricity-usage-of-xinjiang-residents/2019/05/01/12eb3996-6c8a-11e9-be3a-33217240a539_story.html ; Josh Chin and Clément Bürge, “Twelve Days in Xinjiang: How China’s Surveillance State Overwhelms Daily Life,” Wall Street Journal, December 19, 2017, https://www.wsj.com/articles/twelve-days-in-xinjiang-how-chinas-surveillance-state-overwhelms-daily-life-1513700355[3] Samantha Hoffman, “China’s Tech-Enhanced Authoritarianism,” Testimony before House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, Hearing on “China’s Digital Authoritarianism: Surveillance, Influence, and Political Control,” May 19, 2019, https://docs.house.gov/meetings/IG/IG00/20190516/109462/HHRG-116-IG00-Wstate-HoffmanS-20190516.pdf[4] Authur Gwagwa and Lisa Garbe, “Exporting Repression? China’s Artificial Intelligence Push into Africa,” Net Politics Blog, Council on Foreign Relations, December 17, 2018, https://www.cfr.org/blog/exporting-repression-chinas-artificial-intelligence-push-africa; Simon Allison, “How China Spied on the African Union’s Computers,” Mail and Guardian, January 29, 2019, https://mg.co.za/article/2018-01-29-how-china-spied-on-the-african-unions-computers; Evan Ellis, “Chinese Surveillance Complex Advancing in Latin America,” Newsmax, April 12, 2019, https://www.newsmax.com/evanellis/china-surveillance-latin-america-cameras/2019/04/12/id/911484/; Angus Berwick, “How ZTE Helps Venezuela Create China-style Social Control,” Reuters, November 14, 2018, https://www.reuters.com/investigates/special-report/venezuela-zte/[5] Xiao Qiang, “The Road to Digital Unfreedom: President Xi’s Surveillance State,” Journal of Democracy, no. 1 (2019): 53-67.[6] Christopher Walker and Jessica Ludwig. “The Meaning of Sharp Power: How Authoritarian States Project Influence.” Foreign Affairs, November 16, 2017. https://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/china/2017-11-16/meaning-sharp-power[7] International Forum for Democratic Studies, “Sharp Power: Rising Authoritarian Influence” (Washington, D.C.: National Endowment for Democracy, 2017), 13, www.ned.org/wp-content/uploads/2017/12/Introduction-Sharp-Power-Rising-Authoritarian-Influence.pdf.[8] Christopher Walker, Shanthi Kalathil, and Jessica Ludwig, “Forget Hearts and Minds.” Foreign Policy, September 14, 2018, https://foreignpolicy.com/2018/09/14/forget-hearts-and-minds-sharp-power/[9] See, for example: Andrea Vega Yudico, “China’s Multi-Billion Dollar Telecommunications Investment in Africa Poses Threat to Independent Media,” Center for International Media Assistance, October 24, 2017, https://www.cima.ned.org/blog/chinas-multi-billion-dollar-telecommunications-investment-africa-poses-threat-independent-media/ and Nick Bailey, “East African States Adopt China’s Playbook on Internet Censorship,” Freedom House, October 24, 2017, https://freedomhouse.org/blog/east-african-states-adopt-china-s-playbook-internet-censorship.[10] Emeka Umejei, “Will China’s Media Influence African Democracies?” Power 3.0, 2 April 2018, www.power3point0.org/2018/04/02/will-chinas-media-influence-african-democracies.[11] Juan Pablo Cardenal, “China’s Elitist Collaborators,” Project Syndicate, 17 April 2018, www.project-syndicate.org/commentary/china-latin-america-engagement-soft-power-by-juan-pablo-cardenal-2018-04.[12] Koh Gui Qing and John Shiffman, “Beijing’s Covert Radio Network Airs China-Friendly News Across Washington, and the World,” Reuters, November 2, 2015.[13] Rachelle Peterson, “Outsourced to China: Confucius Institutes and Soft Power in American Higher Education,” National Association of Scholars, June 2017, www.nas.org/images/documents/confucius_institutes/NAS_confuciusInstitutes.pdf.[14] Ibid.[15] Bethany Allen-Ebrahimian, “House Proposal Targets Confucius Institutes as Foreign Agents,” Foreign Policy, March 14, 2018, http://foreignpolicy.com/2018/03/14/house-proposal-targets-confucius-institutes-as-foreign-agents-china-communist-party-censorship-academic-freedom.[16] Paul Mozur, “China Presses Its Internet Censorship Efforts Across the Globe,” New York Times, March 2 2018.[17] Qiang, “The Road to Digital Unfreedom: President Xi’s Surveillance State.”[18] Paul Mozur, Jonah Kessel, and Melissa Chan, “Made in China, Exported to the World: The Surveillance State,” New York Times, April 24, 2019, https://www.nytimes.com/2019/04/24/technology/ecuador-surveillance-cameras-police-government.html[19] Lindsay Gorman and Matt Schrader, “U.S. Firms are Helping Build China’s Orwellian State,” Foreign Policy, March 19, 2019, https://foreignpolicy.com/2019/03/19/962492-orwell-china-socialcredit-surveillance/.[20] Kurt Bassuener, “Pushing on an Open Door: Foreign Authoritarian Influence in the Western Balkans,” National Endowment for Democracy, May 2019, www.ned.org/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/Pushing-on-an-Open-Door-Foreign-Authoritarian-Influence-in-the-Western-Balkans-Kurt-Bassuener-May-2019.pdf.[21] Martin Hala, “The 16+1 Initiative: China’s Divisive Equation for Central and Eastern Europe,” Power 3.0, June 5, 2018.[22] Noah Barkin and Aleksandr Vasovic, “Chinese ‘highway to nowhere’ haunts Montengro,” Reuters, July 16, 2018. www.reuters.com/article/us-china-silkroad-europe-montenegro-insi/chinese-highway-to-nowhere-haunts-montenegro-idUSKBN1K60QX.[23] Jonathan Hillman, “Corruption Flows Along China’s Belt and Road,” Center for Strategic and International Studies, January 18, 2019, https://www.csis.org/analysis/corruption-flows-along-chinas-belt-and-road.[24] Benjamin Russell, “What a Controversial Deal in El Salvador Says About China’s Bigger Plans,” Americas Quarterly, April 23, 2019, https://www.americasquarterly.org/content/controversy-el-salvador-china.[25]Cassandra Garrison, “China’s Military-Run Space Station in Argentina is a ‘Black Box,’” Reuters, January 31, 2019, https://www.reuters.com/article/us-space-argentina-china-insight/chinas-military-run-space-station-in-argentina-is-a-black-box-idUSKCN1PP0I2.[26] Cassandra Garrison, “Argentine Lawmakers Seek Greater Oversight of Chinese Space Facility in Patagonia,” Reuters, March 29, 2019, https://www.reuters.com/article/us-argentina-china-space/argentine-lawmakers-seek-greater-oversight-of-chinese-space-facility-in-patagonia-idUSKCN1RA24I.[27] “Report: Kenya Risks Losing Port of Mombasa to China,” The Maritime Executive, December 20, 2018, https://www.maritime-executive.com/article/kenya-risks-losing-port-of-mombasa-to-china.[28] China’s Influence and American Interests: Promoting Constructive Vigilance, ed. Larry Diamond and Orville Schell, the Hoover Institution, November 29, 2018, https://www.hoover.org/research/chinas-influence-american-interests-promoting-constructive-vigilance.[29]See, for example, John Fitzgerald, “China in Xi’s “New Era”: Overstepping Down Under,” Journal of Democracy, no. 2 (2018) and John Garnaut, “How China Interferes in Australia,” Foreign Affairs, 9 March 2018, www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/china/2018-03-09/how-china-interferes-australia.In a new report by the International Forum for Democratic Studies, three experts...The April 2018 edition of the Forum newsletter explores...Leading experts on the Balkans discussed the future...Current & Past Fellows2014-2015As we celebrated World Press Freedom Day, the Center...Christopher Walker and Jessica Ludwig discuss how Russia and China's authoritarian...
#Defenders of Human and Religious Rights in China to Receive 2019 Democracy Award on 30th Anniversary of Tiananmen Massacre#May 21, 2019#National Endowment for Democracy to Honor Uyghur, Tibetan, and Chinese Christian ActivistsThe National Endowment for Democracy (NED) will honor defenders of human and religious rights in China with its 2019 Democracy Award at a June 4th ceremony in the U.S. Capitol, exactly 30 years after the massacre of pro-democracy demonstrators in Beijing in 1989. The ceremony will take place from 5:00 -7:00 pm in room HC-5 of the Capitol. Confirmed speakers include House Republican Conference Chair Rep. Elizabeth Cheney (R-WY), Rep. Joaquin Castro (D-TX), and Rep. Mike McCaul (R-TX). Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi will also address the event.The 2019 Democracy Award Honorees are:See brief descriptions of each organization and their representatives at the end of this release.The Chinese Communist Party (CCP) has been practicing and perfecting its tools to erase identity and dissent, largely with impunity within its claimed borders. Marginalized groups, such as religious and ethnic minorities, have been the primary target for the CCP’s repression, and they have been on the front lines of contestation.“The 2019 Democracy Award honors three groups who are working at the forefront of one of the most important human rights struggles of our time,” said NED president Carl Gershman. “We have seen the reports of millions of Uyghurs imprisoned in China’s internment camps and the abuses that are carried out there,” said Gershman. “We know the history of China’s nearly 70 years of brutal repression in Tibet; and we are now seeing the increased persecution of Christians and the destruction of churches as part of an all-out campaign against religion in China. We honor these three groups that are fighting back against the CCP’s systematic crackdown aimed at erasing their identities and history, and for their resilient efforts to preserve their freedom of belief, their language, their culture, and their most basic rights.”The Endowment will also host a conference on June 3, “China’s Repression Model: Tiananmen, Today, Tomorrow,” from 12:00 – 2:30 pm at its office at 1025 F St, NW, 8th floor, Washington, DC 20004. The agenda features opening remarks by U.S. Ambassador-at-Large for International Religious Freedom Sam Brownback and U.S. Senator Robert Menendez (D-NJ), ranking member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. One panel will feature a moderated conversation with the honorees, Dolkun Isa, Lhadon Tethong, and Bob Fu. A second panel about China’s export of repressive tactics and technology and activists’ efforts to resist the encroachment of authoritarian norms will feature expert analysis by Xiao Qiang of China Digital Times, Sophie Richardson of Human Rights Watch, and the Taiwanese civic tech activist known as Ttcat.These events are open to the media. Credentialed journalists must register in advance with NED public affairs by email: press@ned.org.The National Endowment for Democracy is a private, nonprofit, grant-making organization created in 1983 to strengthen democratic institutions around the world. It is active in more than 90 countries, supporting grassroots democratic initiatives. More information about NED and the Democracy Award can be found at www.ned.org.About the Honorees:Founded in April 2004 in Munich, Germany, after the East Turkistan National Congress and the World Uyghur Youth Congress merged into one united organization, the World Uyghur Congress (WUC) promotes democracy, human rights, and freedom for the Uyghur people and supports the use of peaceful, nonviolent, and democratic means to help Uyghurs achieve self-determination. WUC is the sole representative organization of the Uyghur people globally and has made crucial contributions in bringing attention to the CCP’s crushing campaign of physical, religious, linguistic, and cultural repression against the Uyghur people.Founded in 2009, the Tibet Action Institute (TAI) brings together digital communication tools with strategic nonviolent action to strengthen the capacity and effectiveness of the Tibet movement in a digital era. TAI’s team, comprised of technologists and human rights advocates, develops and advances open-source communication technologies, nonviolent strategies, and innovative training programs for Tibetans with a particular focus on digital security and harnessing the power of digital technologies.Founded in 2002, ChinaAid is an international non-profit Christian human rights organization committed to promoting religious freedom and the rule of law in China. Over the past 17 years, ChinaAid has worked to expose human rights abuses and promote truth, justice and freedom by advocating for religious freedom and the rule of law. ChinaAid advocates for the immediate release of prisoners of conscience, equips human rights defenders and religious and community leaders with religious freedom and rule of law training, rescues and resettles persecuted leaders and their families, provides financial assistance to families of political prisoners, and exposes abuse by reporting unique stories of persecution and injustice through its website and social media.CONTACT: Jane Riley Jacobsen (202) 378-9604 w I (703) 801-5376 m I jane@ned.orgPlease join the Council of the Americas, Americas Quarterly, and the National...The National Endowment for Democracy is proud to honor...China at the Tipping Point?Andrew J. Nathan Class...The April 2018 issues features an eight-article cluster...The International Forum for Democratic Studies' December...The January 2018 issue features 7 articles on transnational kleptocracy, an...
#China’s Foreign Influence and Sharp Power Strategy to Shape and Influence Democratic Institutions#May 16, 2019#I would like to thank Chairman Schiff, Ranking Member Nunes, and the other esteemed members of the Committee for the opportunity and privilege of presenting testimony on the critical subject of the impact of China’s influence on democratic institutions.Since the end of the Cold War, the democratic West has placed special emphasis on the idea of integrating nondemocratic regimes into the rules-based international order. For political leaders and analysts in the United States and Europe, integration has been a dominant foreign-policy organizing concept. The democracies’ central assumption has been that patient engagement with states would yield clear mutual benefits. By embracing China and other such regimes and encouraging their integration into the global economic system and key political institutions, Western powers hoped to encourage autocracies toward meaningful political reform.But this approach has not turned out as we anticipated. Rather than reforming, China and any number of other leading repressive regimes have deepened their authoritarianism. And in an era of hyperglobalization, they are turning it outward. Although the autocratic states are today integrated in many ways into the global system, they have tended not to become more transparent and accountable; rather, they have developed policies and practices aimed at undermining democracy’s advance. Exploiting globalization and the opportunities presented by integration with open societies, these states are working to reshape the very institutions and arenas that welcomed them.Over the past decade in particular, the pendulum of global politics has swung in the direction of authoritarian regimes, which are shaping the political environment in a manner that would have been unimaginable even a few years ago. Even more striking is the resilience that the most influential authoritarian states are displaying, despite the evident weaknesses and flaws of their systems, and the systematic abuses that are found within them. Led by China, these nondemocratic regimes are showing themselves to be entrenched at home, even as they project influence beyond their borders in ways that corrode and undermine democracy and its institutions. The authorities in Beijing have refined and scaled up their instruments of influence and, with them, the ability to manipulate the political landscape of countries beyond their borders. As the leadership in Beijing has become more repressive domestically, China has grown emboldened and more ambitious internationally, with worrisome implications for democratic institutions around the world. In this new era of contestation, China has claimed a larger role on the global stage and has sought to promote its own preferred ideas, norms, and approach to governance. Beijing’s unexpected ability to carry out digital censorship, to use economic leverage to cow voices in the democracies, and more generally to influence democratic systems abroad has created a need for fresh ways of thinking about and dealing with this new situation.Understanding “Sharp Power”Through the Belt and Road Initiative and other forms of engagement, China’s leadership is placing increasing importance on exerting influence and shaping the political operating environment overseas. To this end, over the past decade China has spent many of billions of dollars to shape public opinion and perceptions around the world in arenas typically associated with “soft power,” a term coined by the American political scientist Joseph Nye and understood as the “ability to affect others by attraction and persuasion” or seen as a way to boost a country’s positive image. In China’s case, such efforts have included thousands of people-to-people exchanges, extensive cultural activities, educational programs—including the ever-expanding network of Confucius Institutes—and the development of media and tech enterprises with global reach. Although information is increasingly globalized and internet access is spreading, China and other authoritarian states have managed to reassert control over the realm of ideas. In China, the state keeps a firm grip on the media environment, and the authorities in Beijing use digital technologies to press their advantage at home and, increasingly, abroad. For too long, observers in democracies viewed authoritarian influence through an outmoded lens. Under the direction of the Chinese Communist Party, China has established platforms abroad for educational, cultural, and other forms of influence within undemocratic and democratic societies alike. Over time, it has become clearer that such initiatives tend to be “accompanied by an authoritarian determination to monopolize ideas, suppress alternative narratives, and exploit partner institutions.” The unanticipated ability of authoritarian states like China to exert influence abroad has created a need for new terms that can adequately describe this new situation. Among such terms is “sharp power.” This describes an approach to international affairs that typically involves efforts at censorship and the use of manipulation to degrade the integrity of independent institutions. Neither “hard” but nor “soft,” sharp power has the effect of limiting free expression and distorting the political environment, as explained in a December 2017 report by the National Endowment for Democracy’s International Forum for Democratic Studies that coined the term.The authorities in Beijing in particular have cultivated economic leverage as a tool for getting others to play by its rules. Beijing’s approach seeks to reduce, neutralize, or preempt any challenges to the regime’s presentation of itself. Its state-funded research centers, media outlets, people-to-people exchange programs, and network of Confucius Institutes often mimic civil society initiatives that in democracies function independently of government. Meanwhile, local partners and others in democracies are often unaware of the logic that underpins China’s foreign policy and how tightly the Chinese authorities control social groups, media, and political discourse at home. As China expert John Fitzgerald observes: “There is no boundary between politics and what passes for culture in contemporary China. The Cultural Revolution, a violent political movement that ripped China apart in the late sixties, was not called a ‘cultural’ revolution for nothing. A bitter struggle over power and policy was waged in the cultural realm on the understanding that parties wanting to influence or command a government must first control what is said about them through a country’s education, media, and cultural institutions. Politics as we know it, involving opposition, debate, and negotiation, gave way to the politics of controlling universities, media, and culture.”Today, beyond China’s borders, the corrosive effects of sharp power are increasingly apparent in a number of such crucial domains, including in the spheres of publishing, culture, academia, and media—sectors that are essential for determining how citizens of democracies understand the world around them. As the International Forum report observes, China’s influence activities aim to discourage challenges to its preferred self-presentation, as well as to its positions or standing. Crucially, limiting or muting public discussion of issues deemed unwelcome by the Chinese party-state is a critical characteristic of sharp power.Publishing The publishing sector is a sphere in which independent standards of expression are being challenged. In August 2017, Cambridge University Press (CUP) took the controversial step of removing roughly three hundred articles from a Chinese website that hosted the China Quarterly. The move came after the PRC’s General Administration of Press and Publication threatened to make all CUP-published journals inaccessible from within China. In this case, pushback from the academy and civil society was pivotal in causing CUP to reverse its removal decision. Yet in October 2017, Springer Nature, which is among the world’s largest publishers of scholarly periodicals, announced that under PRC pressure it had blocked access on its Chinese-language website to hundreds of articles, many dealing with elite politics, human rights, Taiwan, and Tibet.The stakes of censorship are growing as PRC authorities improve their capabilities. Independent researchers have observed that in the online editions of journals published in the PRC, dozens of articles dating as far back as the 1950s have been taken out by Chinese censors. As with the Chinese government’s pressure on CUP and other publishers, this is about rewriting Chinese history to suit the party-state. The scholar Glenn Tiffert has noted that enterprising censors or hackers can now fabricate versions of the historical record, attuned to shifting CCP ideological or political requirements—and that by simply digitally consolidating sources onto servers under its control, a savvy authoritarian government can project its domestic censorship regime abroad in order to shape public opinion globally. As machine learning and other technological advances accelerate, the precision and comprehensiveness with which the Chinese government and other authoritarian regimes will be able to modernize censorship is bound to grow. MediaHaving learned to control political ideas within their own countries, autocrats are now bending globalization to their own ends by manipulating discourse abroad, especially in the wide-open information space afforded to them by the democracies. Massive investments in overseas media infrastructure play a central role. It is worth noting that Russia has crafted a template for information manipulation that can be adapted to local circumstances and is now applied in countries around the world. China has similarly scaled up a multifaceted effort to shape the realm of ideas. The authoritarians pursue “information sovereignty” (effectively state dominance and control of the internet) within their own borders while treating everything beyond them as fair game.State dominance over political expression and communication is integral to authoritarian governance. Such control enables the promotion of favored narratives across media platforms, as well as through the words of state officials and surrogates. In an era of global information saturation and fragmentation, the authorities in Beijing understand the “discourse power” that can be exercised through focused and amply funded information initiatives. As the PRC’s media platforms expand and its largest internet firms go global, Beijing’s ability to curate information in a systematic and selective manner will only grow stronger, especially in places where local media organizations are vulnerable, and as AI-related capabilities improve.One such place is Africa. There, China has made major investments in media infrastructure, and Chinese censorship tactics are being deployed in matters that Beijing deems sensitive. Throughout sub-Saharan Africa, Chinese state-media outlets have bureaus with two sets of editors: There are African editors on the local payroll, but a group of Chinese editors in Beijing vets their decisions, at least regarding stories that the PRC feels strongly about. African reporters might have some latitude to cover local news, but they may well find Beijing rejecting, censoring, or altering their content when Chinese interests are involved—all to ensure that China constantly appears in a “positive” or “constructive” light. The Chinese government gives African journalists “training” and brings them to visit China. Real journalism education, however, is not the goal. Instead, the focus is on taking in Chinese achievements (cultural sites, big infrastructure projects) and on learning how to report from the Chinese government’s perspective.This is part of a global pattern that is also visible in Latin America. China’s president Xi Jinping has said that he wants to bring ten thousand Latin American politicians, academics, journalists, officials, and former diplomats to China by 2020.Through its formidable global media apparatus more generally, China is spreading messages abroad, using a variety of tools, about alternatives to democracy as models of governance, how the media can be controlled, and value-neutral internationalist positions in debates on issues like internet governance and overseas development assistance where Beijing is opposed to support for independent media development.For instance, China uses a co-production model as one means of transmitting Beijing-friendly messages and arguments to audiences abroad. China analyst David Bandurski describes how the Discovery Channel entered into an agreement with Chinese state-linked partners in an international film co-production effort titled “China: Time of Xi” that reached many millions of viewers across 37 countries in Asia. This effort was billed “as an independent television production” but, as Bandurski notes, while this initiative offered the illusion of independence “the series was in fact a co-production of a three-year content deal inked in March 2015 between Discovery Networks Asia-Pacific and China Intercontinental Communications Centre (CICC), a company operated by the State Council Information Office (CSIO) —the Chinese government organ sharing an address with the Central Propaganda Department’s Office of Foreign Propaganda (OFP), responsible for spearheading its official messages overseas.”Confucius InstitutesConfucius Institutes are controversial because of the lack of transparency with which they operate on university campuses. Although some observers note that many Confucius Institutes activities seem innocuous, emphasizing Chinese language instruction and cultural events such as film exhibitions, other elements of Confucius Institute programming are quite out of place in an open, university setting. The Chinese government’s control of staffing and curricula ensures that courses and programming will subtly promote CCP positions on issues deemed critical or sensitive by the Chinese authorities, such as territorial disputes or religious minorities in China.Chinese authorities portray the Confucius Institutes as being similar to France’s Alliance Française or Germany’s Goethe-Institut, both of which receive government funding to give language and culture classes. Yet unlike those freestanding organizations, the Confucius Institutes are embedded within educational institutions, most of which are committed to the type of free intellectual inquiry that is impossible at Confucius Institutes themselves. Many casual observers of the Confucius Institutes might not realize that the Confucius Institutes’ constitution, found on the website of Hanban (the Chinese arm of the government that directs them), implies that Chinese law applies within the premises of the Institutes. Moreover, the Confucius Institutes employ staffers who at times have sought to block host universities from holding discussions on sensitive topics such as Taiwan or Tibet.Little about these institutes is transparent; it is hard to say, for instance, what amount of Chinese government money goes to individual host universities. It is also unclear what level of control universities have over curricula within the Institutes because the agreements between these parties often remain confidential.TechnologyChina’s considerable influence is increasingly evident in the digital space, and a full treatment of the multitude of ways such influence is exerting an impact on democratic standards is beyond the scope of this statement. China and other autocratic regimes have applied the online tools and techniques that they have refined for domestic use at the international level as well. Many of the techniques that are applied abroad are first incubated at the domestic level by the Chinese authorities. Through the online censorship system known as the Great Firewall, Chinese authorities have long been able to manage and restrict what China’s people—the world’s largest number of internet users inside a single set of national borders—can access when they go online. Now the government is increasingly applying machine learning to combine censorship and surveillance into comprehensive social management, a development that will increasingly impact global freedom of expression. Beijing also has successfully pressured global technology platforms such as Google and Facebook (both currently blocked in China) to remove selected content.Beijing’s paramount aim, it seems, is to exert control over key information spheres and the tools for manipulating thoughts, images, and ideas. Its management model is centralized and unitary.The idea is to enable the regime to pursue the systematic control of multiple forms of communication, extending well into the democracies. As the authorities in Beijing deepen their artificial intelligence (AI) capacities, they are likely to apply these technologies to devise ever more precise methods of social management, including predicting individual behavior and potential collective action. In China, the companies responsible for developing these technologies are not only partnering with the state security apparatus, but are intertwining themselves within key institutions in democratic societies, giving them an increasing stake in the platforms and algorithms that determine speech on a worldwide basis. Chinese ambitions to become a global powerhouse in big data, AI, and other emerging technologies have significant ramifications for democratic governance globally, yet the community of civil society actors involved in the governance of emerging technologies has yet to engage on this issue in a meaningful way. The full implications of China’s wide-ranging activity in the digital sphere on African subcontinent is among the issues that deserves closer attention.Corrosive CapitalMany emerging and vulnerable democracies face challenges in governing foreign direct investment, including weak accountability in public spending, opaque corporate governance, poor procurement oversight, and lax anti-corruption enforcement. These challenges are easily exploited by authoritarian regimes intent on using state-connected financial resources for reasons other than development or mutual economic benefit, leading to potentially disastrous outcomes for open and democratic governance. When investment and foreign assistance is part of broader conversations involving civil society in developing economies, the effect can be to strengthen such essential features of democratic governance as citizen voice and participation, media independence, transparency, and accountability. If the authoritarian-linked firms and institutions driving the capital flows ignore or even undermine liberal-democratic values and concerns, however, the durability of democratic governance can suffer, corruption can flourish, and authoritarianism can find fertile ground.The situation in Central Europe and the Balkans, where young, aspiring or vulnerable democracies predominate, is illustrative. In countries throughout those regions there are indications that China has sought to utilize various forms of capital inflows, including equity, debt, and aid, to achieve geostrategic aims and divert the region from a trajectory of integration into the community of democratic states. Regional initiatives, such as China’s “16+1” initiative to strengthen bilateral ties with former Eastern Bloc countries, offer Beijing an easy alternative to dealing with the EU as a whole. In regions such as the Western Balkans where the interests of local political elites, who retain power by catering to key patronage networks, overlap with China’s high tolerance for corruption, Beijing’s way of doing business exacerbates existing problems surrounding transparency and accountability.Indeed, China’s BRI, initially conceived as an infrastructure network, has become in essence an operating system for Xi Jinping’s vision of an interconnected, China-centric order positioned as an alternative to the existing rules-based international system. In countries where its projects have turned for the worse, its combining of infrastructure financing with geopolitical aims has raised doubt and opposition. In December 2017, for instance, the government of Sri Lanka admitted its inability to repay the US$8 billion that it had borrowed from Chinese firms to build a deepwater port at Hambantota, handing the project to Beijing on a 99-year lease in an instance of what critics have called “debt-trap diplomacy.” In other cases, Chinese financing for infrastructure projects under the BRI have seen countries take on unsustainable debt levels for projects of questionable economic viability. For example, in Montenegro a project financed by China’s Export-Import Bank to link the coastal port of Bar by road to Serbia has been dubbed “the highway to nowhere” after the government could not afford to take out further loans to complete the overruns of the project.Such deals with China tend to be characterized by an essential lack of transparency. Patterns across regions and sectors have taken shape that illustrate the extent of the problem. Several other recent cases have come to light, for instance, which demonstrate how Beijing’s preference for working directly and exclusively with executive branch elites in its engagement with foreign governments and how this can have had a corrosive effect on the integrity of institutions and governance more broadly. Ecuador’s negotiation under President Rafael Correa of a Chinese-financed loan to acquire surveillance equipment and technology to power its ECU-911 monitoring system also took place in the absence of meaningful public debate, and civil society is only now in a position where it can begin to grapple with the potential ramifications of such an extensive system that has already been put into place. When Panama and El Salvador switched diplomatic recognition from Taiwan to the People’s Republic of China, key government, private sector, and civil society actors were kept in the dark until after official announcements were made. In the case of El Salvador, its congress has launched an effort to review and halt the advancement of an accompanying agreement to establish a special economic zone that would comprise 14 percent of the country’s territory in strategic areas along the coast and give preferential benefits to Chinese firms. Only a few weeks ago, more than a dozen other agreements that the El Salvadorian president had reached with China were made public for the first time, spanning from promoting the Belt and Road Initiative, to scientific and technological cooperation, and educational exchange, among others. In all of these cases, civil society and policymakers have been forced to try to catch up from behind to understand the implications of how such agreements may impact their countries and to retrofit monitoring and accountability mechanisms.In Argentina, a deal reached with the Cristina Kirchner administration saw the People’s Liberation Army given a fifty-year lease to build and operate a space observation station with dual-use capabilities in Patagonia. After recent reporting revealed the agreement provided the Argentine government with no mechanisms for oversight or access to the station, Argentina’s national congress launched an investigation and is seeking to revisit the agreement. In Africa, agreements on major deals also fit the pattern.In the wake of these developments, civil society actors across the world have awakened to the need to scrutinize such investments, or run the risk of their governments finding themselves obliged to sign over strategic assets or territory. Implications for the United StatesThe pattern of China’s engagement that has taken shape globally has not eluded the U.S.In recent years, reports of influence that were once episodic have become more frequent as journalists and other observers have begun to look more closely; the patterns of opacity and manipulation that have characterized China’s engagements in other parts of the world have come to light here. China’s Influence and American Interests, a report produced by the Hoover Institution and the Asia Society and released in November 2018 found that “in certain key ways China is exploiting America’s openness in order to advance its aims on a competitive playing field that is hardly level. For at the same time that China’s authoritarian system takes advantage of the openness of American society to seek influence, it impedes legitimate efforts by American counterpart institutions to engage Chinese society on a reciprocal basis.” This report, on whose working group I participated, further observed that “China’s influence activities have moved beyond their traditional United Front focus on diaspora communities to target a far broader range of sectors in Western societies, ranging from think tanks, universities, and media to state, local, and national government institutions. China seeks to promote views sympathetic to the Chinese Government, policies, society, and culture; suppress alternative views; and co-opt key American players to support China’s foreign policy goals and economic interests.”One example that indicates the global nature of the challenge was reported in November 2015, when it came to light that China Radio International (CRI), Beijing’s state-run radio network, was operating as a hidden hand behind a global web of stations on which the Chinese government controls much of the content. According to a Reuters investigation, 33 stations in 14 countries “primarily broadcast content created or supplied by CRI or by media companies it controls in the United States, Australia, and Europe.” As part of this elaborate Chinese-government effort to exploit the open media space, more than a dozen stations across the United States operate as part of the CCP’s “borrowed boat” approach, in which existing media outlets in foreign countries are used to project China’s messages.The Chinese government has trained its attention on Hollywood, where its presence shapes the industry in ways both visible and unseen. Because China is an increasingly important market for the global film industry, entertainment firms have been striking deals that help give them access to that market, but put them at the mercy of Chinese censors. This leads to content either edited to fit the Chinese market, or proactively shaped to exclude anything the Chinese government might consider sensitive in the first place. Chinese co-productions are also more likely to feature positive depictions of China. Marvel’s “Doctor Strange” changed one character’s origin story from Tibetan to Celtic; the screenwriter acknowledged that offending China’s sensibilities was a concern. Prominent Tibet supporter and actor Richard Gere told The Hollywood Reporter in 2017 that the year before he “had an episode where someone said they could not finance a film with [him] because it would upset the Chinese.”Dealing with the New EnvironmentThe leadership of institutions essential to the functioning of the public sphere within democratic societies—publishers, university administrators, media and technology executives, and others—in the past did not need to take into account to such a degree the prospect of manipulation or censorship by external authoritarian powers. Today, however, the exertion of sharp power makes it necessary for them to renew and deepen their commitment to democratic standards and free political expression. The mechanisms to achieve a deepening of such commitment are not self-evident or straightforward. To address this challenge, common standards must be developed, with the aim of reducing these institutions’ exposure and safeguarding their integrity over the long term. Because in today’s world autocracies and democracies are integrated and interdependent in so many new ways, authoritarians must be contested on multiple fronts and levels, including within democratic societies and their institutions.Winning the “Values War”In the last decade, the global operating environment has changed. In crucial arenas relating to the health and integrity of democratic systems—including the spheres of freedom of expression, the principles that govern technology, and the way in which state-driven capital can be leveraged for political purposes—the impact of leading authoritarian regimes is being felt more acutely. Given China’s rapid emergence on the world stage and its more visible authoritarian internationalism, it seems we are approaching an inflection point. If anything, the challenge presented by China and other ambitious, internationalist autocratic regimes has grown in the most recent period. At the same time, the democracies are only slowly waking up to the fact that they have entered into an era of serious and strategic contestation based on governance models. We have been slow to understand the implications of this struggle over essential values. The values war that has taken shape globally is one between autocratic regimes, on the one hand, whose animating governance principles favor state control, management of political expression, and privileging “rule by law” over rule of law, versus democratic systems, on the other, whose principles are based on open societies, free and independent expression, and rule of law. In an era of hyperglobalization, the battle over these fundamental values is being waged in every region and across diverse polities. How this battle plays out will shape the character of the world we live in.The CCP’s efforts to speak to the world, to shape understanding, and to subtly undercut or overtly assail the democracies should not be underestimated. The authorities in Beijing mean to reforge the established rules and norms of international politics. Plainly said, they represent the leadership of the “unfree world.” Much of the response to date to the China challenge from the democracies has focused on the trade and military dimensions, both of which deserve rightly deserve attention. But we must reckon with the fact that so much of Beijing’s activity in recent years may be related to but is distinct from these domains. In order to compete, the U.S. and other democracies will need to address this gap. A valuable base of experience can be found in Australia, which has recently been facing up to the challenge of PRC sharp power projection. As John Fitzgerald has noted, Australia is not only “on the frontline” of China’s overseas influence efforts, but also “at the forefront among liberal democracies in generating press, community, and government responses in defense of its sovereignty and institutional integrity, as well as the values—including the freedoms of speech, assembly, and religion—that China’s influence operations place at risk.” The experience of Australia can furnish useful lessons to other advanced democracies now being exposed to Beijing’s brand of sharp power.As democratic societies move into the next stage of dealing with sharp power—crafting workable responses—civil society’s role will be critical. The Australian government’s efforts to combat foreign interference, and civil society’s role in informing and shaping these efforts, underscore the necessity of pursuing what should be understood as a comprehensive response to the multidimensional challenge presented by China. At a fundamental level, any response to this global challenge also needs to consider the essential importance of democratic development in China itself.NED’s Response to the China ChallengeFor its part, the National Endowment for Democracy (NED) and its associated institutes have set in motion a response to this multifaceted challenge. NED’s programmatic approach to addressing China’s influence around the world that threatens democratic norms, standards and institutions is anchored in three interrelated components: developing and accelerating the capacity of think tanks, civil society and journalists to study and analyze Chinese influence in politics, the economy and society; strengthening the ability of these actors, including those working in the civic technology space, to respond appropriately and strategically; and linking efforts at the country level with counterparts engaged in similar work around the world. The International Republican Institute (IRI) is directly combating CCP malign influence in developing democracies, working with country partners to shine a spotlight on the CCP’s influence tactics and bolster democratic resilience to them.  IRI is equipping government officials, independent media, political parties, private enterprise, and civil society in these countries with the tools to protect their democratic institutions and sovereignty.  The National Democratic Institute (NDI) conducts a number of initiatives that address China’s exertion of authoritarian influence. This includes its work with the Asian Network for Free Elections (ANFREL) and its country member citizen groups to among other things address Chinese and other authoritarian  disinformation campaigns that aim to sow divisions and undermine public trust in democratic processes.  In Hong Kong, NDI has provided forums for women, youth, and ethnic minorities to constructively participate in policy-making and elevate their voices and priorities. NDI also has conducted a series of missions regarding the development of Hong Kong’s constitutional and electoral framework, the enforcement of the rule of law and civil liberties, and prospects for Hong Kong’s democratization. In response to the loans, investment, and aid from non-democratic countries, including China, into emerging democracies with poor governance and weak rule of law – understood as “corrosive capital” –  the Center for International Private Enterprise has been working to document how corrosive capital flows into countries, and then to work with its private sector partners to increase resiliency, including through strengthening policies on competition, anti-monopoly, corruption and procurement; building awareness among key state agencies; and increasing public debate. Chinese state-owned enterprises often take advantage of institutional and policy weaknesses to invest without sufficient public sector oversight, private sector consultation, or citizen scrutiny. Once in-country, these funds further corrode governance, exacerbate corruption, increase indebtedness, and in some cases, have resulted in the transfer of sovereign resources. Crafting a Response to the China ChallengeGiven its corrosive impact on critical democratic institutions, China’s authoritarian internationalism poses both a rule-of-law and a national security challenge; authoritarian efforts that today target democratic institutions and seek to undermine their integrity represent what should be understood as a serious and persistent nontraditional security threat. Any response to the challenge posed by China will first require dispensing with the inadequate framing of this issue as a simple choice of either shunning or engaging China, which is already deeply integrated into the international system, across every region in the world. Rather, it is the nature and contours of the engagement with China that must be rethought. The following are key steps, drawn from our Sharp Power report, which can be taken to address the Beijing’s influence efforts:Address the evident knowledge and capacity gap on China. Throughout many societies in which China today is deeply engaged information concerning the Chinese political system and its foreign policy strategies tends to be extremely limited. This places many societies at a distinct strategic disadvantage. There often are few journalists, editors, and policy professionals who possess a deep understanding of China—the Chinese Communist Party, especially—and can share their knowledge with the rest of their societies in a systematic way. Given China’s growing economic, media, and political footprint in these settings, there is a pressing need to build capacity to disseminate independent information about China and its regime. Civil society organizations should develop strategies for communicating expert knowledge about China to broader audiences. Shine a spotlight on authoritarian influence. Chinese sharp power relies in part on disguising state-directed projects as commercial media or grassroots associations, for example, or using local actors as conduits for foreign propaganda or tools of foreign manipulation. To respond to these efforts at misdirection, observers need the capacity to put them under the spotlight and analyze them in an independent and comprehensive manner. Safeguard democratic societies against undesirable Chinese Party State influence. Once the nature and techniques of authoritarian influence efforts are exposed, countries should build up internal defenses. Authoritarian initiatives are directed at cultivating relationships with the political elites, thought leaders, and other information gatekeepers of open societies. Such efforts are part of Beijing’s larger aim to get inside such systems in order to incentivize cooperation and neutralize criticism of the authoritarian regime. Support for strong, independent civil society—including independent media—is essential to ensuring that the citizens of democracies are adequately informed to evaluate critically the benefits and risks of closer engagement with Beijing and its surrogates. It is impossible to know for certain, for instance, the degree to which intimidation from authoritarian governments has already made scholars and publishers “sensitive-topic averse.” Exposing the hidden pressures is a first step toward countering the censors’ insidious influence.Reaffirm support for democratic values and ideals. If one goal of authoritarian sharp power is to legitimize nondemocratic forms of government, then it is only effective to the extent that democracies and their citizens lose sight of their own principles. The Chinese government’s sharp power seeks to undermine democratic standards and ideals. Top leaders in the democracies must speak out clearly and consistently on behalf of democratic ideals and put down clear markers regarding acceptable standards of democratic behavior. Otherwise, the authoritarians will fill the void.Learn from democratic partners. A number of countries, Australia especially, have already had extensive engagement with China and can serve as an important point of reference for countries whose institutions are at an earlier stage of their interaction with Beijing. Given the complex and multifaceted character of Beijing’s influence activities, such learning between and among democracies is critical for accelerating responses that are at once effective and consistent with democratic standards.Read Carl Gershman's keynote address delivered for Brookings/CSIS Joint Symposium...1998 Democracy Award honors heroes of human rights...We're pleased to announce our Fall 2015 cohort of Reagan-Fascell,...The March 2019 edition of the Forum newsletter features new content, event recaps,...
#NED HOSTS “BUILDING DEMOCRATIC RESILIENCE IN THE WESTERN BALKANS”#May 10, 2019#On May 2, 2019, the National Endowment for Democracy hosted a discussion on the state of democracy in the Western Balkan countries aspiring to EU membership, including Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kosovo, Montenegro, North Macedonia, and Serbia. The event’s featured speaker was NED Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellow Agon Maliqi, a Kosovo-based policy analyst, activist, and journalist.Mr. Maliqi is the creator and co-founding editor of sbunker.net, a NED-funded Albanian-language current affairs blog geared towards young activists, analysts, and writers in the Western Balkans. A frequent TV and radio commentator on current affairs in the region, he has also worked as an independent policy consultant. While initially working on good governance and human development projects, he has focused more recently on pushing back against authoritarian governance due to growing concerns over security threats and democratic backsliding in the region. As a Reagan-Fascell fellow, he is looking at how to mobilize and build a constituency for liberal democracy to combat rising illiberalism and skepticism about democracy. Mr. Maliqi is the Endowment’s first ever Reagan-Fascell fellow from Kosovo.In his presentation to a standing-room only audience at NED, Mr. Maliqi reviewed the recent history of the Western Balkans. This included several years of democratic gains across the region up to 2014, generally due to enthusiasm for EU candidacy (all of the region’s countries remain official candidates except for Bosnia and Herzegovina and Kosovo, which are  “potential” candidates). Starting in 2015, however, popular support for democracy has plummeted in Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, and Montenegro, and in Mr. Maliqi’s words, has “stagnated” in Albania and Kosovo.Mr. Maliqi termed the situation an “illiberal equilibrium” that includes three key components. First, elections are won but meaningful democratic choice is limited, due to a combination of weak institutions, oligarchs, state-controlled media and unappealing oppositions. Second, authoritarian forces have capitalized on bilateral and ethnic disputes in the region. Finally, regional security concerns have empowered the political status quo.The event included introductory remarks by Ivana Cvetkovic Bajrovic, NED’s Associate Director for Europe. Ms. Bajrovic briefly discussed the recent democratic backsliding in Southeast Europe, and the international concern regarding Russia and China’s successful efforts to undermine and reverse the region’s democratic gains. Mr. Maliqi’s panel also included regional experts Molly Montgomery from the Albright Stonebridge Group and formerly of the U.S. State Department, and Jasmin Mujanovic, a media commentator and policy expert on the region, and the author of Hunger & Fury: The Crisis of Democracy in the Balkans.To watch a video broadcast of this event, please click here.NED President Carl Gershman asks, "Does Democracy Matter?" at Woodrow Wilson...Leading experts on the Balkans discussed the future...Apr. 20, 2015Worth Reading: Journal of Democracy...Read the Challenge of Resurgent Authoritarianism: Can America Turn the Tide?
#“Dollar Diplomacy or Debt Trap? Examining China’s Role in the Western Hemisphere”#May 10, 2019#Testimony before the U.S. House Foreign Affairs Committee, Western Hemisphere SubcommitteeChristopher Walker, Vice President, Studies & Analysis, National Endowment for DemocracyMay 9, 2019I would like to thank the Committee for the opportunity and privilege of presenting testimony on this timely and critical subject.China’s economic engagement in the western hemisphere has been notable for its speed and breadth. In a remarkably short period of time, China has become a major investor and trading partner with a growing number of countries throughout the region.Putting the extent of this development into context, regional expert Eric Farnsworth writes in the most recent issue of the Americas Quarterly that “China’s entry into the Americas is the most significant issue this century in hemispheric affairs” and that Latin America is “at an inflection point in terms of its relationship with China.”As China has gone global, the Chinese authorities have made their ambition clear, putting forward their conception of “Globalization 2.0”: a vision of Party/State-driven international economic cooperation epitomized by the “Belt and Road Initiative” (BRI). These developments are of great relevance to U.S. allies and partners around the globe, including those in Latin America.The central point I would like to emphasize, however, is that China’s emerging relationship with countries in the region cannot be understood principally on the basis of dollars and cents. Therefore, I will not focus my remarks on the economic dimension of China’s relationship with countries in the region. This is because China’s engagement, under the direction of the Chinese Party/State, is multidimensional and in its interaction with countries in the hemisphere brings to bear a wide range of resources that include but are beyond the realm of commerce and economics.Through the BRI and other forms of engagement, China’s leadership is placing increasing importance on exerting influence and shaping the political operating environment overseas. In fact, over the past decade, China has spent tens of billions of dollars to shape public opinion and perceptions around the world into arenas typically associated with “soft power,” a term coined by the American political scientist Joseph Nye and understood as the “ability to affect others by attraction and persuasion.” Such efforts have included thousands of people-to-people exchanges, extensive cultural activities, educational programs (notably the ever-expanding network of Confucius Institutes), and the development of media enterprises with global reach.Although information is increasingly globalized and internet access is spreading, China and other leading authoritarian states have managed to reassert control over the realm of ideas, something that has caught analysts and observers by surprise, given the longstanding assumptions about the presumed liberating effect of digital technologies. In China, the state dominates the information environment, and the authorities in Beijing use digital technologies to press their advantage at home and, increasingly, abroad. Taken together, these developments indicate a new and growing challenge at the level of ideas, principles, and values.For too long, observers in democracies interpreted authoritarian influence through an outdated lens, even as China embedded itself in democratic societies as part of the autocratic regimes’ broader internationalist turn. China, in particular, has established platforms for educational, cultural, and other forms of influence within societies. Such initiatives tend to be “accompanied by an authoritarian determination to monopolize ideas, suppress alternative narratives, and exploit partner institutions.” The unanticipated ability of authoritarian states like China to exert influence abroad has created a need for new terms that can adequately describe this new situation.Chief among such terms is “sharp power.” This describes an approach to international affairs that typically involves efforts at censorship and the use of manipulation to degrade the integrity of independent institutions. Neither “hard” but nor really “soft,” sharp power has the effect of limiting free expression and distorting the political environment, as explained in a December 2017 report by the National Endowment for Democracy’s International Forum for Democratic Studies that coined the term.China especially has cultivated economic leverage as a tool for getting others to play by its rules. Beijing’s approach seeks to reduce, neutralize, or preempt any challenges to the regime’s presentation of itself. The Chinese government often aims to portray the country as either a benign foreign influence or a successful example of economic development and modernization without democratic political institutions. Beijing does not hesitate to use its local allies and influence to seek to mute opposition to its projects.In the introduction to a first-of-its-kind report, Chinese Influence and American Interests, released in November 2018 that was produced by the Hoover Institution and the Asia Society, the editors spoke to the changed approach by China’s leadership. Until Party general secretary Xi Jinping came to power in 2012, the watchword among China’s paramount leadership was to “keep your heads down and bide your time”; these Party leaders sought to emphasize that China’s rapid economic growth and its move toward to “great power” status did not need not be threatening to the existing global order. However, since Xi Jinping assumed power, the situation has changed. Under his leadership, China has significantly expanded the more assertive set of policies initiated by his predecessor Hu Jintao, as that report observed. These policies not only seek to redefine China’s place in the world as a global power, but they also have put forward the notion of a “China option” that is claimed to be a more efficient developmental model than liberal democracy.In considering today’s more internationalist China, we must be mindful to view its external power projection in a way that cannot be divorced from the political values by which the CCP governs at home.On this count, a clearer picture of Beijing’s intentions can be obtained from China’s domestic political and media landscape. During the time since the 2008 Beijing Olympics, the Chinese authorities have intensified their suppression of dissent, silenced political opponents, inundated their citizens with propagandistic content, and co-opted independent voices, all while working to maintain the appearance of openness and modernity.In recent years, the ideas realm in China has been steadily monopolized by the state and its surrogates, as the CCP has worked to eliminate any challenge to its position in the public discourse.Democratic Institutions and Public Sphere in Latin AmericaHaving set the wider context for China’s engagement, I would like to touch on the Chinese authorities’ projection of influence in Latin America. The pattern of activity that has become evident globally in several critical sectors is of direct relevance to the hemisphere.MediaChina’s media engagement strategy is multifaceted. First, it seeks to disseminate its messages directly through its state media presence in the region. Chinese state media outlets Xinhua and China Global Television Network (CGTN) do not openly disclose the number of staff or bureaus operating in the region, but their presence is certainly growing, and as they have done in other regions of the world, they are increasingly hiring local reporters. China’s ambassadors are also more actively engaging with local media by placing op-eds and providing interviews with local media outlets throughout Latin America and the Caribbean.Second, China’s state media are entering into partnership agreements directly with local media outlets, which include placing paid supplementary materials in local media, content-sharing agreements, content coproduction, and “training” and exchanges for media editors, journalists, and documentary filmmakers in China.As documented in our Sharp Power report, in Argentina Tiempo Argentino inserted Xinhua’s four-page supplement in 2015 as part of a larger cooperation agreement between Grupo Veintitrés and Xinhua. Grupo Indalo and Télam signed cooperation agreements with Xinhua during Cristina Kirchner’s presidency.Grupo América closed an agreement with China Daily to insert the four-page China Watch supplement in five of the group’s newspapers. Grupo América also partnered with China Global Television Network (CGTN) to produce a series of documentaries. In 2015, People’s Daily and La Nación made a public deal to jointly distribute news content.More recently, during the G20 Buenos Aires summit, China Media Group (CMG) and Argentina Radio Television co-produced and aired on public television platforms in both countries two documentaries, “Glamorous Argentina” and “Glamorous China.” (“Glamorous China in the Eyes of Argentine”).It is worth noting that Argentina’s relationship with Moscow also deepened during the Cristina Kirchner’s presidency. In October 2014, Russian President Vladimir Putin and Kirchner announced the start of RT broadcasts in the Spanish language to nation-wide audiences in Argentina. RT now broadcasts in Argentina, Venezuela, and Colombia and can be viewed on cable television networks in nearly every country in Central and South America, including Brazil and Peru. It is complemented by the print and online publication sponsored by Rossiskaya Gazeta, Russia Beyond the Headlines, which has been included as a supplement in Argentina’s La Nacion, Brazil’s Folha de S.Paulo, and Uruguay’s El Observador. The Russian-state-backed information sources, like those of the Chinese, are differentiated by country with the goal of effectively influencing specific audiences.An initiative by Global Americans has analyzed selected articles published by Russian and Chinese state media outlets to understand how they aim to portray current events in the western hemisphere for intended readers across the Latin American region, finding them in certain respects to be intentionally false or misleading.In Peru, an agreement between CGTN and the National Institute of Radio and Television of Peru emphasizes joint collaboration in news exchange, co-production and non-newsworthy content swaps, technological cooperation, and personnel training and mutual visits. In Venezuela, CGTN and Telesur maintain a joint cooperation deal.In Colombia, the popular Semana magazine published a special edition magazine in October 2018 titled, “China: Poder, Tradición, Comercio, Innovación”, funded by China.The third facet of China’s media engagement strategy centers on building relationships with individual media editors and journalists from around the region. To highlight one recent example, alongside the G20 summit held in Buenos Aires, China organized the 2018 China-Latin America and the Caribbean Media Forum under the theme “deepening media cooperation to build a China-LAC community with a shared future.” The forum drew representatives from 13 Chinese media outlets and more than one hundred news agencies from over 20 Latin American and Caribbean nations.TechnologyChina is also using the export of its technology as a method of political and economic engagement in the region. While a fuller picture is only beginning to emerge, several recent reports have highlighted how Latin American governments are employing Chinese technologies that were developed within China to support state surveillance capacity and incentivize social management.Most notably in Venezuela, Reuters reported how ZTE technology powering the carnet de la patria, or the “Fatherland Card,” has enabled the Maduro regime to collect personal data and track citizens behavior, while also granting citizens preferential access to food rations and supplemental cash payments at the same time that living standards in the country have rapidly devolved into an humanitarian crisis.In Ecuador, Foreign Policy and The New York Times have described in striking terms how loans from China enabled the Ecuadorian government under former President Rafael Correa’s leadership to purchase a nationwide network of 4,300 surveillance cameras from Huawei and the state-owned company CEIEC for monitoring crime and coordinating humanitarian responses to natural disasters. But in addition to the 3,000 police employees monitoring the cameras in 16 observation centers, Ecuador’s intelligence service also has access to the live feeds. Venezuela and Bolivia reportedly are also pursuing the acquisition of similar systems from China.For many countries in Latin America, as in other developing economies around the world, the opportunity to import advanced technologies can be highly attractive. We can anticipate that governments across the region will continue to pursue such opportunities and welcome investments from China in this sphere. However, the wider societies of countries throughout the region must approach such technology-related deals with open eyes and with the information necessary to make fully informed decisions.EducationConfucius InstitutesAs is the case globally, Confucius Institutes are active and proliferating across Latin America. Santiago, Chile hosts a Confucius Institute Regional Center for Latin America which provides methodology trainings for Confucius Institute instructors based around the region.Confucius Institutes are controversial because of the opacity with which they operate on university campuses. Although some observers note that many Confucius Institutes activities seem innocuous, emphasizing Chinese language instruction and cultural events such as film exhibitions, other elements of Confucius Institute programming are quite out of place in a university context. The Chinese government’s control of staffing and curricula ensures that courses and programming will subtly promote CCP positions on issues deemed critical or sensitive by the Chinese authorities, such as territorial disputes or religious minorities in China.In relative terms, many of the countries in the region are in the relatively early stages of their engagement with China. They therefore have the opportunity to build their respective relationships with China with open eyes. To do this, they will need to cooperate with and learn from countries, such as Australia, that are farther along on the learning curve in dealing with China’s sharp power.Understanding China’s Engagement: Authoritarian “Animating Principles”As we noted in our Sharp Power report, the overarching approach of China – and Russia, too – “stems from an ideological model that privileges state power over individual liberty and is fundamentally hostile to free expression, open debate, and independent thought.”There is clearly nothing “soft” about how these regimes treat the media, education, and the realm of ideas in their domestic environments. Should we view their outward-facing activities differently?To put Beijing’s operating approach into context, it is essential to understanding the animating principles that guide its governance model:Why should we care about this dramatic buildup of influence by the authoritarians, and how should we think about it? After all, aren’t China and other such states simply pursuing their own interests? They are, to be sure. But, as noted above, these interests are informed by autocratic political values and preferences that privilege state control.As China has dramatically expanded its economic interests and business footprint around the globe through the Belt and Road Initiative and related efforts, Beijing has focused its influence on masking government policies and suppressing, to the extent possible, voices beyond China’s borders that are critical of the CCP, as China expert Sarah Cook has written. It seeks to do so by coopting and manipulating targets in the media, academia, and policy and business communities. Such efforts furthermore seek to permeate institutions in democratic states that might draw attention or raise obstacles to the advancement of CCP interests, disincentivizing any such resistance.As my colleague Shanthi Kalathil observes, it is not that China “attempts to control every facet of communication, or that it wants to impose its exact model of authoritarian governance everywhere. But it is increasingly true that Beijing’s technology ambitions, combined with its attempts to determine on a global scale the parameters of “acceptable” speech and opinion with respect to China, pose clear threats to freedom of expression and democratic discourse outside its borders.”What we have been slow to recognize is that in an era of globalization, ambitious regimes that play by their own coercive and often predatory rules at home are keen to move the goalposts on the international level toward their authoritarian preferences.Crafting a Response to the China ChallengeAny response to the challenge posed by China will first require dispensing with the inadequate framing of this issue as a simple choice of either shunning or engaging China, which is already deeply integrated into the international system, including increasingly throughout Latin America. Rather, it is the nature of the engagement with China that must be rethought.The following are key steps, drawn from our Sharp Power report, which can be taken to address the Chinese government’s influence efforts:Address the evident knowledge and capacity gap on China. Throughout Latin America—as in other regions around the world—information concerning the Chinese political system and its foreign policy strategies tends to be extremely limited. This places societies in the region at a distinct strategic disadvantage. There are few journalists, editors, and policy professionals who possess a deep understanding of China – the Chinese Communist Party, especially – and can share their knowledge with the rest of their societies in a systematic way. Given China’s growing economic, media, and political footprint in these settings, there is a pressing need to build capacity to disseminate independent information about China and its regime. Civil society organizations should develop strategies for communicating expert knowledge about China to broader audiences. This should include a conscious effort to break down ordinary academic and policy barriers to enable collaboration between experts on China and regional specialists focused on Latin America.Shine a spotlight on authoritarian influence. Chinese sharp power relies in part on disguising state-directed projects as commercial media or grassroots associations, for example, or using local actors as conduits for foreign propaganda or tools of foreign manipulation. To respond to these efforts at misdirection, observers in Latin America need the capacity to put them under the spotlight and analyze them in an independent and comprehensive manner.Safeguard democratic societies in Latin America against undesirable Chinese Party State influence. Once the nature and techniques of authoritarian influence efforts are exposed, countries in the region should build up internal defenses. Authoritarian initiatives are directed at cultivating relationships with the political elites, thought leaders, and other information gatekeepers of open societies. Such efforts are part of Beijing’s larger aim to get inside such systems in order to incentivize cooperation and neutralize criticism of the authoritarian regime. Support for a robust, independent civil society—including independent media—is essential to ensuring that the citizens of democracies are adequately informed to critically evaluate the benefits and risks of closer engagement with Beijing and its surrogates.Reaffirm support for democratic values and ideals. If one goal of authoritarian sharp power is to legitimize non-democratic forms of government, then it is only effective to the extent that democracies and their citizens lose sight of their own principles. The Chinese government’s sharp power seeks to undermine democratic standards and ideals. Top leaders in the democracies must speak out clearly and consistently on behalf of democratic ideals and put down clear markers regarding acceptable standards of democratic behavior. Otherwise, the authoritarians will fill the void.Learn from democratic partners. A number of countries, Australia especially, have already had extensive engagement with China and can serve as an important point of reference for countries in Latin America whose institutions are at an earlier stage of their interaction with Beijing. (See, for example, “China in Xi’s “New Era”: Overstepping Down Under” and “How China Interferes in Australia”). Given the complex and multifaceted character of Beijing’s influence activities, such learning between and among democracies is critical for accelerating responses that are at once effective and consistent with democratic standards.Minxin Pei is the Tom and Margot Pritzker ’72 Professor of Government...Christopher Walker and Jessica Ludwig discuss how Russia...The April 2019 issue of the Journal of Democracy features...As we celebrate the Dalai Lama’s 80th birthday, let...A number of Latin American countries are in the midst of turmoil. Brazil has...
#Presentation of Democracy Service Medal to Senator John McCain#May 8, 2019#Remarks made by NED Chairman Andrew H. Card, Jr. at IRI 2019 Freedom DinnerTuesday, May 7, 2019Good evening,It is my great pleasure to join you tonight to pay an overdue tribute to the longtime leader and champion of IRI, my friend, Senator John McCain.I joined the National Endowment for Democracy as NED’s new Chairman in January 2018.  John had returned to Arizona and was fighting for his life when the Endowment decided it needed to honor him – to let him know how much his leadership and solidarity meant to us – and more importantly, to all those on the front lines of the struggle for democracy whom he supported so tirelessly.We struck this medallion last year – the date on the back says 2018 – but sadly, we did not have an opportunity to present it.  We are so grateful to our friends and colleagues from IRI, and to the McCain family, for allowing us to make this presentation this evening.NED’s Democracy Service Medal was first awarded to the former Polish President and Solidarity leader Lech Walesa and the former AFL-CIO President Lane Kirkland in April 1999 on the 10th anniversary of the roundtable agreement that led to the peaceful transition to democracy in Poland 30 years ago.  The Medal has since been presented to many distinguished individuals, such as the late Czech President Vaclav Havel and the Dalai Lama, who have also shown immense dedication to the cause of democracy and human freedom.John McCain, who has been celebrated for his bravery and personal courage, was also one of the great freedom fighters of the modern era.  He was a champion of democracy wherever it was being challenged and needed his support.  His powerful voice inspired dissidents and political prisoners everywhere and gave them confidence by letting them know that they were not alone.  As a result, his death was mourned by democrats in Russia and Ukraine, in China and Burma, in Cuba and Venezuela, and in Egypt, Iran, Zimbabwe, and so many other countries, both large and small.Senator McCain was also a decades-long friend of the National Endowment for Democracy.  As you all know, IRI is one of the Endowment’s four core institutes, and as IRI’s chairman for more than a quarter century, John McCain did an enormous amount of work to build support in the U.S. Congress for NED’s mission and work.  For that invaluable support, the Endowment and all those we support are forever grateful.John McCain was a proud American, and he made countless others proud to be American.  In remembering John McCain, we pledge ourselves to continuing the fight for freedom to which he devoted his life.It is my great honor as Chairman of the National Endowment for Democracy to present posthumously to Senator John McCain the Democracy Service Medal in recognition of his historic contribution to the cause of democracy and human freedom.Thank you.2007 Democracy Service MedalPresented to: Mort Abramowitz,  Emmanuel...2004 Democracy Service MedalPresented to:  Bob...Remarks by Dr. Judy Shelton, Vice Chairman of NED. 30th Anniversary Celebration at the National Archives
#NED to honor late Sen. John McCain with Democracy Service Medal at IRI Freedom Dinner#May 7, 2019#May 7, 2019Washington, DC – The National Endowment for Democracy (NED) will honor the late Senator John McCain with a posthumous presentation of NED’s Democracy Service Medal.  NED Chairman Andrew Card will present the Medal tonight, May 7, at the annual Freedom Dinner of the International Republican Institute; IRI Board member and close friend of McCain Senator Lindsey Graham (R-SC) will accept the award.  Also paying tribute to McCain will be Kyiv, Ukraine mayor Vitali Klitschko and Russian democracy activist Vladimir Kara Murza.McCain was a stalwart champion of democracy in every part of the world.  He was a dedicated friend and ally of the NED, chairing IRI, which is one of NED’s four core grantees, for more than 25 years.  He consistently went to great lengths to meet and understand the struggles of those working for democracy and human rights in the toughest, most difficult environments.“John McCain was one of the great freedom fighters of all time,” said NED President Carl Gershman. “He was a champion of democracy wherever it was being challenged and needed his support.  His powerful voice gave hope to dissidents and political prisoners everywhere and gave them confidence that they were not alone.”The Democracy Service Medal was first awarded to the former Polish President and founder of the Solidarity trade union movement Lech Walesa, and former AFL-CIO President Lane Kirkland in April 1999 on the 10th anniversary of the roundtable agreement that led to the peaceful transition to democracy in Poland. It has since been presented to a wide range of individuals who have demonstrated through personal commitment, their dedication to the advancement of freedom and human rights, and to the building of democratic institutions.  Distinguished recipients include the late Vaclav Havel, His Holiness the Dalai Lama, and former Secretaries of State Madeleine K. Albright, and George P. Schultz.Contact:  Jane Riley Jacobsen 202-378-9604Former Secretary of State Madeleine Albright, Senator John McCain and National...Czech and Slovak representatives joined members of...Remarks made by NED Chairman Andrew H. Card, Jr. at...The 2005 Democracy Service Medal was presented to ...2007 Democracy Service MedalPresented to: Mort Abramowitz,  Emmanuel...
#Foreign Authoritarian Influence in the Western Balkans | An International Forum Working Paper#May 3, 2019#The National Endowment for Democracy’s International Forum for Democratic Studies is pleased to announce the release of a new working paper, “Pushing on an Open Door: Foreign Authoritarian Influence in the Western Balkans,” authored by Kurt Bassuener.This publication is part of a new International Forum working paper series, examining the dynamics and impact of resurgent authoritarian influence in the era of globalization, including through networked transnational kleptocracy and manipulation of the global information space. For more on these themes, visit the Forum’s blog, Power 3.0: Understanding Modern Authoritarian Influence, and its related podcast.Nearly two decades after the cessation of violent conflict in the Western Balkans and efforts by the international community to support democratic reform, analysis suggests that most countries in the region are losing ground on the rule of law, media freedoms, and democratic accountability more generally. State capture, erosion of independent media, and the growth of corrupt patronage networks are features of this landscape.Meanwhile, authoritarian powers such as Russia, Turkey, China, and several Persian Gulf states are exerting greater influence in the Western Balkans, with the effect in certain respects of corroding the integrity of democratic institutions. They bring significant economic and political leverage and have focused efforts on developing strong relationships with governments in the region. But their footprint extends to the wider societies through state media initiatives whose narratives intersect with and amplify illiberal narratives, while bolstering unaccountable governance systems throughout the region.Russia: The region’s political regression and unfulfilled reform agendas have provided Moscow with opportunities to promote friction and fragmentation. A hallmark of the Kremlin’s policy has been the exploitation of cleavages to advance its goals of establishing control over energy infrastructure, as well as impeding the expansion of NATO, and more recently, the EU. Where Moscow’s interests play into social and political conflicts, the interests and sentiments of local ruling elites often act as natural force multipliers.Turkey: As with Russia, the trajectory of Turkish engagement in the Western Balkans correlates with the country’s domestic political conditions and the perceived interests of its leadership. Turkish engagement in the Balkan media sphere seems aimed at promoting President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan and his policies, in addition to further developing favorable relationships with the region’s governments. Turkish state media contribute to an information environment in which local citizens are surrounded by propaganda from numerous and often conflicting outside players and agendas, feeding into an existing, widespread sense of cynicism about the integrity of the press and democratic institutions.China: Chinese investment in the region may seem like an easy way for Balkan leaders to maintain their ecosystems of power, but it could allow Beijing to gain far greater economic and political leverage in the future. The political alignment of most regional media has impeded broad and independent public discussion of China’s activities—Beijing’s media messaging agenda and that of local political leaders largely coincide. Beijing’s largesse also comes with an expectation of self-censorship and conformity regarding sensitive topics, and its outreach efforts effectively promote China’s authoritarian political system. China’s way of doing business—opaque deal-making with established political elites, enabled by a high tolerance for corruption—exacerbates existing problems surrounding transparency and accountability in the Western Balkans.Gulf States: Although relatively limited until recently, increasing investment from the Gulf has targeted local government elites who can ensure that projects proceed without due diligence or public transparency. While the Gulf states’ media presence and outreach has been less sizeable than that of other authoritarian regimes, they have been used to push back against local concerns about their investments in the region.All of the authoritarian actors analyzed employ a mode of governing through personalized power that blurs the line between public and private resources. This has deep congruence throughout the region, where institutional mechanisms meant to ensure accountability and enforce the rule of law remain shallow. Opaque deal-making is notably facilitated by the weakness of independent media in the host countries, where Balkan political elites tend to dominate domestic media narratives through control of major broadcast stations and other key outlets. Under these conditions, authoritarian powers attempting to exert influence on leaders and publics through state media initiatives in the Western Balkans are pushing on an open door.While the direction and development of the societies in the Western Balkans will ultimately depend on the will of their citizens, external support for local advocates working to legally entrench democratic accountability is still essential. The Western Balkans are a front in what amounts to a world war of values, and the forces of democracy cannot afford to abandon it.Those in the established democracies and in the Western Balkans who hold democratic rights and human freedoms dear need to make common cause. Indeed, their challenges are intertwined: Many familiar features of the Western Balkan media and public space are now on the rise across Europe and North America. The struggle to build accountable democracy in the Western Balkans is not separable from the defense of democracy in the rest of the world.  Image Credit: Dennis Jarvis / FlickrAshley Esarey teaches in the Department of Political Science at the University...Economic liberalization failed to bring political liberaliation...The Washington Post editorial board discussed the findings...
#Senator Richard Lugar, Defender of Democracy and Bipartisan Foreign Policy, Remembered by NED#April 29, 2019#It is will great sadness and deep gratitude that the National Endowment for Democracy (NED) mourns the passing of U.S. Senator Richard G. Lugar, who served as a member of NED’s Board of Directors for nine years, from 1992-2001.“Senator Richard Lugar was one of the great voices in the U.S. Senate and in the country as a whole for democratic internationalism and a bipartisan foreign policy, said NED president Carl Gershman. “In the 1990s he repeatedly led a broad coalition of Republicans and Democrats on the floor of the U.S. Senate in defense of the NED and its mission of advancing and strengthening democracy worldwide. He was also a strong advocate of independent media as a key dimension of a democratic society, and it was at his urging that the NED established the Center for International Media Assistance (CIMA). Senator Lugar was beloved and respected by everyone within the NED family, and he will be sorely missed and long remembered.”Lugar was awarded the NED’s Democracy Service Medal in 2001 for his lifelong contribution to the cause of democracy and human freedom.Contact:  Jane Riley Jacobsen, jane@ned.org, 202-378-9604  
#“Armenia’s Velvet Revolution” by Elspeth Suthers & Miriam Lanskoy in the Journal of Democracy#April 23, 2019#Embed from Getty Imageswindow.gie=window.gie||function(c){(gie.q=gie.q||[]).push(c)};gie(function(){gie.widgets.load({id:'41D3FMgYQW1Eqw0enqUyhw',sig:'WqfPODZgLiKv3isQR2zjsubVXKAT31YiFQRGEC-TYFQ=',w:'594px',h:'395px',items:'955915574',caption: true ,tld:'com',is360: false })});The 2018 Velvet Revolution in Armenia is a historic opportunity for democratic development. Popular protests led by Nikol Pashinian dislodged the country’s kleptocratic ruling elite, and a new government that promised sweeping domestic reforms was elected at the year’s end. These protests drew on a long history of civil society and opposition organizing in Armenia, in particular postelection protests in 2008, which the government dispersed with violence. In the April 2019 issue of the Journal of Democracy, Elspeth Suthers and Miriam Lanskoy consider the enormous challenges the new government faces as it begins to contemplate reforming a system based on corruption and injustice, while still balancing Armenia’s foreign-policy commitments and security concerns.The Armenian experience underscores that protests are not merely fleeting outbursts that relieve the pressure on a dysfunctional system. . . . they  generate leaders, encourage young people to keep questioning the political elite, and foster collaboration among members of civil society. In a new report by the International Forum for Democratic Studies, three experts...In his new book, Post-Communist Mafia State, Dr. Bálint...Join us for a discussion with civic and religious leaders...The Embassy of Canada and The National Endowment for...The International Forum for Democratic Studies asked five leading experts about...
#Journal of Democracy April 2019 Issue: 30 Years After Tiananmen#April 18, 2019#            Thirty years after the 1989 protests in Beijing’s Tiananmen Square and their brutal suppression captured global attention, repression is on the rise in Xi Jinping’s China. In a special set of five articles, activists and scholars reflect on  the legacy of Tiananmen:Also in the April 2019 issue: Plus:For the complete Table of Contents, visit www.journalofdemocracy.org. The September 2018 edition of the Forum newsletter features new content, event...Read remarks by NED President Carl Gershman at “North...Christopher Walker testified before the U.S.-China...Dean Jackson of the International Forum for Democratic...Twentieth Anniversary Celebration - Journal of DemocracyDemocracy's Past and...
#NED Welcomes New Fellows from Australia, Georgia, India, Kosovo, Nigeria and Uganda#April 4, 2019#The National Endowment for Democracy (NED) is pleased to announce its Spring 2019 cohort of Reagan-Fascell, Visiting, and Hurford Youth Fellows.In residence are leading democracy activists, practitioners, journalists, and scholars from a wide range of countries, including Australia, Georgia, India, Kosovo, Nigeria, and Uganda.Named in honor of President Ronald Reagan and the late Congressman Dante Fascell (D-Fl.), whose bipartisan vision led to NED’s founding, the Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellows Program seeks to expand the knowledge, broaden the perspectives, build the capacity, and boost the morale of some of the world’s most committed and courageous democracy advocates.Based at the International Forum for Democratic Studies, a leading center for analysis and discussion of the theory and practice of democracy around the world, the Reagan-Fascell program has enabled more than 300 fellows from over 90 countries to deepen their understanding of democracy and enhance their ability to work toward democratic change.The Hurford Youth Fellows Program seeks to build the leadership skills, enhance the organizational talents, and harness the potential of emerging democracy leaders from around the world.   The program is based at the secretariat of the World Movement for Democracy and is supported by the Hurford Foundation.Leading experts on the Balkans discussed the future of the region and potential...In light of the rise of populist views in the region,...On May 2, 2019, the National Endowment for Democracy...Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellow George Sarpong examined...As we celebrated World Press Freedom Day, the Center for International Media...
#International Forum for Democratic Studies March 2019 Newsletter#March 28, 2019#The January 2019 Journal of Democracy cluster on “The Road to Digital Unfreedom” also includes articles by Larry Diamond on “The Threat of Postmodern Totalitarianism” and Steven Feldstein on “How Artificial Intelligence is Reshaping Repression.” The issue also features Wendy Hunter and Timothy J. Power on “Bolsonaro and Brazil’s Illiberal Backlash,” an analysis on “How the Populists Won in Italy” by Roberto D’Alimonte, an overview of “Cambodia’s Transition to Hegemonic Authoritarianism” by Lee Morgenbesser, and more.“A cacophony of opinions and the flood of information on social media are degrading public discourse. Faced with information overload, consumers resort to cognitive shortcuts that tend to steer them toward opinions that fit what they already believe.” Recent episodes from the International Forum’s new podcast feature Andrea Kendall-Taylor on “Curbing Authoritarian Influence in Europe,” Moises Naim on “The Intersection of Globalization and Polarization,” and Marc F. Plattner on “Democracy and the Illiberal Temptation.”Anwar Ibrahim, President of the People’s Justice Party of Malaysia, presented the Fifteenth Annual Seymour Martin Lipset Lecture on Democracy in the World on February 11, speaking on the topic of “Confronting Authoritarianism.”Writing for the January 2019 issue of Policy Options, Christopher Walker, NED’s Vice President for Studies and Analysis, assesses the risk posed to multiple sectors by autocratic regimes capable of exerting influence beyond their national borders in an era of hyper-globalization.The latest issue of Democracy Research News highlights regional research from members of the global Network of Democracy Research Institutes. To submit comments or to inquire about joining the Network, please write to Melissa Aten.On February 14, Reagan-Fascell Fellow George Sarpong examined the approaches to digital migration on the African continent, and explored how migration strategies could undermine democratic principles. He is also featured in a Forum Q&A on “Defending Media Freedom During Ghana’s Digital Migration.”On January 24, Reagan-Fascell Fellow Kyrylo Loukorenko presented on the role of public media in Ukraine’s democracy and the challenges it faces to becoming a strong and stable institution. Read more from Kyrylo in his Forum Q&A on “Public Service Media as a Model for a New Ukraine.”  National Endowment for Democracy President Carl Gershman moderated a panel on...Mr. Kwami Ahiabenu is founder and president of the...NED Vice President for Studies and Analysis Christopher...The Eighth Annual Seymour Martin Lipset Lecture on...Join us on Friday, April 28, for a discussion with leading experts in Ukrainian...
#National Endowment for Democracy names Edmund M. Glabus Chief Operating Officer#March 26, 2019#WASHINGTON, D.C. – The National Endowment for Democracy (NED) has named Edmund M. Glabus as its new Chief Operating Officer. Mr. Glabus most recently served as executive director of The Veterans Consortium, a nonprofit organization that provides pro bono legal representation to veterans and their loved ones before Federal Courts.  Glabus officially joins the NED staff on March 27, 2019.“Ed comes to the Endowment well-equipped to help NED succeed in carrying out its global mission of advancing democracy around the world,” said NED president Carl Gershman.  “His proven management and nonprofit leadership experience, combined with his global perspective, will be important to NED’s continued impact and success.”Prior to his tenure at The Veterans Consortium, Glabus served in a series of corporate officer positions at ManTech International Corporation as well as at Aegis Research Corporation. Glabus is also a veteran whose more than 20-year Regular Army, National Guard and Army Reserve career included various command and staff tours in the U.S. and overseas.Glabus succeeds J. William Leonard, who is retiring from NED after nine years of outstanding service.  “The Board and staff of NED are extremely grateful to Bill for all he has done to guide and strengthen the Endowment during a period of rapid change and growth,” said Gershman. “Bill’s dedication to the NED as an institution, to our staff and grantees, and to the cause of democracy was obvious to all who had the privilege of working with him. NED is a much stronger institution today because of Bill.”The National Endowment for Democracy was established in 1983 as a private, nonprofit, grant-making foundation with a mission to strengthen democratic institutions around the world through nongovernmental efforts. With an annual appropriation from the U.S. Congress, the NED Board, which is independent and bipartisan, makes more than 1600 grants each year to support projects that promote political and economic freedom and participation, human rights, a strong civil society, independent media and the rule of law in more than 90 countries.CONTACT:  Jane Riley Jacobsen jane@ned.org or 202-378-9700
#Democracy Research News March 2019#March 12, 2019#The NED’s International Forum for Democratic Studies (United States) is pleased to announce its new podcast, “Power 3.0: Authoritarian Resurgence, Democratic Resilience.” In tandem with the Power 3.0 Blog, the Forum’s new podcast examines how modern authoritarian regimes, like those in China and Russia, have in some ways leapfrogged the capabilities of democracies by exploiting their openness through the features of globalization: the interconnected economic and financial system; the Internet, telecommunication technologies, and social media networks; international norms and institutions; global media; academic exchange; and culture. Recent episodes feature Andrea Kendall-Taylor on “Curbing Authoritarian Influence in Europe,”  Moises Naim on “The Intersection of Globalization and Polarization,” and Marc F. Plattner on “Democracy and the Illiberal Temptation.”Sign up to receive notices about future podcast episodes and blog posts, and subscribe to the Power 3.0 podcast on Android, Apple Podcasts (iTunes), Google Play, Overcast, Pocket Casts, PodBean, Spotify, Stitcher, and Tune In. The V-Dem Institute (Sweden) has announced that Policy Dialogue Day 2019, centered around “New Challenges to Democracy, Governance, and Peace,” will take place on Wednesday May 22, 2019, at the Wallenberg Conference Center in Gothenburg, Sweden. Registration for Policy Dialogue Day is now open until May 8, 2019. The January 2019 issue of the International Forum for Democratic Studies’ Journal of Democracy features a cluster of articles on “The Road to Digital Unfreedom,” examining how new digital technologies are transforming the authoritarian arsenal and reshaping demoratic politics – from the proliferation and abuse of artificial intelligence to the “personal-data surveillance economy” underlying social media. The issue also features Wendy Hunter and Timothy J. Power on the rise of Brazil’s Jair Bolnasaro, Lee Morgenbesser on the recent crackdown in Cambodia, Alex Magaisa on Zimbabwe’s first post-Mugabe elections, and more.The International Forum and the Embassy of Canada hosted Anwar Ibrahim, President of the People’s Justice Party of Malaysia, for the Fifteenth Annual Seymour Martin Lipset Lecture on Democracy in the World on February 11. The lecture outlined processes necessary for “Confronting Authoritarianism.”Once it was conventional wisdom to assume that social media would enable greater access to information, facilitate collective organizing, and empower civil society. Now, these platforms are seen as contributing to society’s ills. Writing for the International Forum’s Power 3.0 Blog, Ron Deibert discusses “Social Media and Democracy: Three Painful Truths” and what they mean for the future of liberal democratic practices.Also writing for Power 3.0, Nick Monaco’s  “Using Research to Uncover State-Sponsered Harassment Online” assesses the threat of state-sponsored trolling and explores strategies for solving the problem of disinformation and protecting journalists.The V-Dem Institute published two thematic reports: “Accountability in Southeast Asia & Southeast Africa” and “Women’s Rights and Political Empowerment in Benin, Bolivia, Malawi, and Morocco.” The Centre for Development and Enterprise (South Africa) published a report titled “Making South Africa More Labour Intensive,” which examines why South African economic activity is not more labor-intensive despite a high unemployment rate in the country.Afrobarometer’s Round 7 public opinion survey in Liberia found mixed perceptions of a democracy in evolution and that a majority of Liberians approve of President Weah’s performance since he assumed office but rate the government poorly on economic management.Afrobarometer‘s inaugural survey in The Gambia reveals that citizens want perpetrators of human rights abuses during Jammeh’s era to be tried in court, a majority think the government is performing well in the fight against corruption, and that almost six in 10 citizens have considered emigrating.Afrobarometer’s survey in Cape Verde shows that a majority of citizens oppose granting visa exemptions to EU passport holders, which many fear will increase crime.In Ghana, Afrobarometer’s 2017 survey data show that popular support for a free media has dropped sharply in Ghana.Sierra Leoneans are split on whether dual citizens should be allowed to vote according to Afrobarometer.The Center for Democracy and Development – West Africa published a report on “Statelessness: Identity and Citizenship,” which offers a comprehensive overview of some of the key issues that continue to shape discourses about nationality and legal identity in the region and examines how the crisis manifests itself in countries such as Ghana, Sierra-Leone, and other countries.During a February 14 discussion, International Forum Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellow George Sarpong examined the approaches to digital migration in Africa, explained the legal and regulatory fault lines, and explored how migration strategies could undermine democratic principles if governments, civil society, and the international community do not address fundamental policy questions. He delved further into the topic in his Q&A on “Defending Media Freedom During Ghana’s Digital Migration.”China’s communications technology giant Huawei has invested more than $1 billion USD in countries across Africa. In his Power 3.0 Blog post, “The Imitation Game: Will China’s Investments Reshape Africa’s Internet?” Emeka Umejei discusses the extent to which these investments may contribute to the replication of an authoritarian model of Internet governance with adverse consequences for democracy, freedom of expression, and human rights. The East Asia Institute (South Korea) published a working paper titled “Civic Engagement between MP and their Regional Community.”In his Power 3.0 Blog post, “India’s Interest in a Democratic Indo-Pacific,” Constantino Xavier discusses the consequences that the simultaneous rise of a democratic India and an authoritarian China have for the future of democracy in Asia. The Association for International Affairs (Czech Republic) published a working paper on “China’s Activities in 16+1: Pooling Knowledge and Sharing Lessons Learnt,” which examines China’s political and economic involvement in the 16+1 countries. The Association also published a working paper titled “Going Beyond the Anti-Refugee Rhetoric: A New Formula for Czech-Polish Relations,” which ‘argues that the anti-refugee symbolism that unites the Czech Republic and Poland in the EU does not lead to a strengthening of the two countries’ positions in European politics. On the contrary, it could lead either to isolation or a break-up of the Visegrad Group.’The Centre for Democracy and Human Rights (Montenegro) released the results of its second annual poll on “Political Public Opinion of Montenegro.” The results reveal that citizens’ confidence in the Government and other institutions has declined since last year.The Institute for Public Affairs (Slovakia), along with the Heinrich-Böll-Stiftung, published a book titled Phantom Menace: The Politics and Policies of Migration in Central Europe. The book analyzes the socio-economic aspects of migration, the integration of migrants and refugees, and domestic political aspects of the migration and refugee issue.The Prague Security Studies Institute (PSSI, Czech Republic) published a series of briefing papers presenting the results of ongoing research within the project “Western Balkans at the Crossroads: Assessing Non-Democratic External Influence Activities.” While the first paper provided background on the project topic, each of the following papers focuses on a specific area in which influence activities of Russia, China, Turkey and the Gulf states take place: politics, economics, culture and religion, and media and elections.PSSI also contributed to a new “Guide to Critical Thinking,” created within the framework of the project “Mythbusters.” The chief aim of the publication is to provide practical examples and offer useful recommendations on how to recognize manipulation in the digital age.Writing for the Power 3.0 Blog, Peter Kreko’s “Conformation Bias: Political Tribalism as a Driver of Disinformation” argues that disinformation and conspiracy theories are spreading more widely and quickly in Poland and Hungary because they serve as important weapons in tribal war, going against the persistent belief in propaganda and conspiracy theories as a consequence of personal cognitive failings and shortcomings.During a January 24 event on “The Struggle to Achieve Public Media Reform in Ukraine,” veteran journalist and International Forum Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellow Kyrylo Loukerenko discussed the role of public media in Ukraine’s democracy and the challenges it faces in becoming a strong and stable institution. He offers further details in his Q&A on “Public Service Media as a Model for a New Ukraine.” The Center for the Opening and Development of Latin America (CADAL, Argentina) released its 2018 Annual Report, along with an article on “A Dubious Referendum on a (Slightly) Revised Constitution Shows Growing Opposition to the Revolution in Cuba.”The Latin American Public Opinion Project at Vanderbilt University (United States) published a report by Julia Gabriel titled “Interested, Educated, and Alienated: Who Says Corruption is the Most Serious Problem Facing Their Country?” The report examines what type of Latin American citizens view corruption as the dominant problem facing their country. It finds that wealthy, educated men are more likely to identify with the issue. In Tunisia, citizens say corruption continues to increase, and they consider it the third-most-important problem that the government needs to address, and a majority of Tunisia’s youth and highly educated have considered emigrating, according to Afrobarometer.The Lebanese Center for Policy Studies published “Lebanon’s Parliamentary Election of 2018: Seats, Coalitions, and Candidate Profiles,” which aims to empirically assess the election’s fairness and competitiveness, as well as identify the characteristics of its coalitions.In a February 26 discussion on “A Crisis of Legitimacy in the Islamic Republic of Iran Forty Years After the Revolution,” International Forum Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellow Dr. Ladan Boroumand reflected on crucial phases that have defined Iran’s state-society dialectic, and brought to light the unprecedented cultural and ideological consequences of this dynamic. Using state violence as an indicator, she examined the diverse ideological and religious challenges faced by the Islamic regime of Iran. During a December 11 event titled, “Is the Party Over? Youth, Political Parties and Elections in Georgia,” civil society activist and International Forum Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellow Vera Gogokhia discussed the role of youth in the recent Georgian elections and considered the roots of the current disconnect between political parties and young people, and whether the gap can be bridged. Stanford University’s Center on Democracy, Development, and the Rule of Law (United States) and the Hoover Institution published an article on “Chinese Influence and American Interests: Promoting Constructive Vigilance,” which highlights ways in which the Chinese government uses coercive or corrupting methods to interfere in the functioning of American civil and political life.  The April 2018 edition of the Forum newsletter explores the latest issue of...Michael Coppedge is professor of political science...The March 2019 edition of the Forum newsletter features...Democracy Research News is the electronic newsletter...The April 2018 edition of Democracy Research News welcomes...The January 2019 edition of the Forum newsletter features new content, event...
#NED SYMPOSIUM HONORS LYUDMILA ALEXEYEVA’S LEGACY#February 25, 2019#On February 14, 2019, the National Endowment for Democracy (NED) held a symposium in the US Capitol focused on human rights in Russia and honoring the life and legacy of Lyudmila Alexeyeva, who died on December 8, 2018 at the age of 91. Widely known as the “matriarch” of Russia’s human rights movement, Alexeyeva was a founder of the Moscow Helsinki Group, launched in 1976 to raise the banner for human rights in the Soviet Union through the Helsinki process. That group’s groundbreaking work exposed human rights abuses and advocated openly for democratic reform in Russia, despite constant threats of government retribution; it also was a model and inspiration for the creation of similar watchdog organizations all over the world. NED organized the meeting in cooperation with the Solidarity Center and the Free Russia Foundation  .The event began with introductory remarks from US Senator Ben Cardin (D-MD), the ranking member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. “Lyudmila Alexeyeva is a hero to us all,” he said.  “Lyudmila took on the challenge in Russia and was so successful in elevating democracy and human rights in that country.”  Cardin then spoke about the important role the US Congress can play in advancing human rights through legislation like the Global Magnitsky Act.Newly elected US Rep. Tom Malinowski (D-NJ), a leading human rights activist who previously served as the State Department’s Assistant Secretary of State for Democracy, Human Rights and Labor, also made remarks. After citing the courage it took Alexeyeva to start the Moscow Helsinki Group, Malinowski reflected on the significance of President Putin’s presence at Alexeyeva’s funeral. “As much as he tries to crush the ideas that this woman and the human rights community in Russia stand for, you can’t really do that.  You have to acknowledge the legitimacy of those ideas if you have any hope of legitimacy to lead Russia or any other country – and that is her ultimate victory.”Miriam Lanskoy, NED’s Senior Director for Russia and Eurasia, led the subsequent panel discussion, which featured several influential figures in Russia’s human rights battle. The panelists included NED Board member Ambassador Daniel Fried, a Distinguished Fellow in the Future Europe Initiative and Eurasia Center at the Atlantic Council, who played a key role in designing and implementing American policy in post-Soviet Europe. Fried spoke glowingly of Alexeyeva’s “outstanding” work, describing how “the axioms of détente were literally overthrown from below by Lyudmila…and her fellow activists.” He also provided a broad historical context for US-Russian relations, and remarked that this fraught relationship could and should inform US attitudes toward other repressive nations, citing Saudi Arabia and Iran as examples.Ambassador John Tefft worked with both Alexeyeva and Ambassador Fried for many years while serving as US ambassador to the Russian Federation, Lithuania, Georgia, Ukraine, as well as the State Department’s Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for European and Eurasian Affairs. Ambassador Tefft praised Alexeyeva for having “led a life of real consequence.” He also shared touching personal memories of dinners he attended at her home, speaking with obvious affection about her “kind and charming” attitude toward everyone she met, even Russian president Putin, who symbolized everything she fought against. He described the time that Vladimir Putin had personally come to visit Alexeyeva in her home, “bearing flowers, no less… [this was] obviously a thinly veiled attempt to intimidate her for being troublemaker.” Ambassador Tefft and the crowd laughed as Tefft described how Alexeyeva greeted Putin cordially and proceeded to run through a lengthy list of human rights policy issues, interrogating the president on how he intended to address each one. This, Tefft said, was one of many stories that cemented Alexeyeva’s reputation as a fearless advocate and “consummate diplomat.”Catherine Cosman, a former senior analyst with both the US Commission on International Religious Freedom (USCIRF) and the US Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe, shared several insights and fond memories of Alexeyeva, with whom she had been friends and colleagues for over 40 years. Cosman noted that Alexeyeva’s father had lost his life when his brigade battled German troops at Leningrad in 1942, and that this seemed to inspire his daughter’s fighting spirit and incredible courage. “She would speak truth to every single person, be they workers or be they Vladimir Putin,” said Cosman.Sergei Davidis, a Russian democratic activist, who leads the Political Prisoners Support Program as a means of raising awareness of the plight of Russian political prisoners, praised Alexeyeva’s advocacy on behalf of victims of human rights abuses. He described an incident when several protesters were unlawfully arrested for holding a public demonstration in favor of human rights. Alexeyeva went directly to the police station where the protesters were being held and refused to leave, despite being ordered to do so by the police chief. Davidis described her exceptional ability to exert “gentle persuasion” on authority figures, which, after several hours, ultimately led to the police chief relenting and all the protesters being released.Leonid Gozman, a longtime friend of Alexeyeva and the president of Russia’s Union of Right Forces, expressed his amazement at how she stayed “fantastically busy until her last days.” He described how effortlessly she introduced “moral standards” to the conversation about Russian human rights, and he compared her legacy in Russia to that of Martin Luther King Jr. in the United States: “She was needed by the people, [and she]…really believed that Russia could be democratic and free.” Event panelists discuss the ongoing problem of SGBV in South Sudan, and explore...NED will screen a short film on political violence...Krishna Kumari's election to the upper house of Pakistan...In this episode of Democracy Ideas, Peter Pomerantsev...Read the remarks made by NED President Carl Gershman...
#Celebrating the 20th Anniversary of the World Movement for Democracy#February 19, 2019#Twenty years ago, 400 of democrats from nearly 80 countries gathered at the inaugural Assembly of the World Movement for Democracy in New Delhi, India, to rejoice in the wave of democratization that had swept the world in the second part of the century. The Assembly was the first step to celebrate the diversity of transitions, movements, and activists that made this moment a reality and to take the next leap forward. With hope and optimism, we founded the World Movement for Democracy, for which the National Endowment for Democracy serves as the secretariat, believing that “the continued durability and dynamism of democracy globally requires a worldwide community of democrats . . . who are united by shared democratic values and a commitment to mutual support and solidarity.”Despite the abolition of untouchability and the enactment of special laws to...Krishna Kumari's election to the upper house of Pakistan...The 10 Conditions of Love: A Documentary about the...The World Movement for Democracy will honor three exceptional...NED will host legendary Belarusian rock musician and activist Lavon Volski in...
#Testimony to Canadian Parliament by NED President Carl Gershman#February 19, 2019#To the Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and International Development of the House of Commons of CanadaThank you, Chairman Levitt, for inviting me to testify this morning before your Committee.  I applaud the fact that you are initiating a study of Canada’s role in supporting democratic development around the world.  I have long believed that Canada has a critically important role to play in this field, never more so than at the present time.NED was founded 35 years ago, a hopeful moment when what was subsequently called the Third Wave of Democratization was just beginning to gather momentum.  As we well know, the current period is very different.   2018 marked the 13th consecutive year, according to Freedom House, that democracy has declined in the world.  This period has seen the rising power and assertiveness of authoritarian states like China, Russia, and Iran; the backsliding of once democratic countries like Turkey, Venezuela, the Philippines, Thailand, and Hungary; and the rise of populist and nationalist movements and parties in the established democracies.Autocratic regimes have tried to repress independent groups working to promote greater freedom and to cut them off from international assistance from institutions like the National Democratic Institute (NDI) and the International Republican Institute (IRI), NED’s party institutes.  They have also passed harsh laws that make it illegal for NGOs to receive foreign assistance.The work nonetheless goes on and has even been expanding, which is a testament to the determination and the courage of indigenous groups who want to continue to work and receive needed assistance despite the risks.We should not forget that despite all the backsliding, there have also been important gains over the past year in Ethiopia, Armenia, and Malaysia.  NED was providing support to democrats in all of these countries before the political openings, which positioned us to quickly scale up our support once the openings occurred.  This is an example of our commitment and ability to navigate around the obstacles created by authoritarian regimes and to continue to provide assistance while taking care to protect the safety of our grantees.NED is an unusual institution that was built to take on tough challenges.  Following President Ronald Reagan’s historic Westminster Address in 1982, which called for a new effort to support democracy throughout the world, NED was created as a non-governmental organization governed by a private and independent board of directors.NED receives its core funding in the form of an annual congressional appropriation that was authorized in the National Endowment for Democracy Act passed in 1983.  The NED Act also built a fire-wall between the Endowment and the executive branch of our government.  NED is a private, bipartisan, grant-making institution that steers clear of immediate policy disputes and takes a long-term approach to democratic development.  In addition to supporting grassroots democratic initiatives, it also serves as a hub of activity, resources, and intellectual exchange for democracy activists, practitioners, and analysts around the world.The NED takes a multi-sectoral approach to democracy assistance, funding programs by its four core institutes, which represent our two major political parties, the business community and the labor movement.  I’m aware that you heard from the presidents of our two party institutes, NDI and IRI, just two weeks ago.  Each of the NED’s four core institutes is able to access its sector’s expertise and experience from all over the world.In addition, NED’s targeted, demand-driven small grants program responds directly to the needs of local NGOs defending human rights, strengthens independent media and civic education, and empowers women and youth in a manner that enables them to establish credibility as independent democratizing forces in their own societies.  As an autonomous institution dedicated to supporting democracy, NED can steadily strengthen indigenous civil-society organizations, learn through trial and error, and build important networks of trust and collaboration that can be effective over the long term.Moreover, as a nimble private organization with no field offices abroad, NED has developed a reputation for acting swiftly, flexibly, and effectively in providing vital assistance to activists working in the most challenging environments.  It also devotes enormous effort to monitoring the work of our grantees and to fulfilling its fiduciary responsibilities in the careful management of taxpayer funds.NED further leverages its grants program through networking and recognition activities that provide political support and solidarity to frontline activists.  These activities include the World Movement for Democracy, which networks democracy activists globally; the Center for International Media Assistance; the Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellows Program; and our Democracy Award events on Capitol Hill.  NED also promotes scholarly research through the International Forum for Democratic Studies and the Journal of Democracy, giving activists access to the latest insights on aiding democratic transitions and strengthening liberal values, and also helping to inform thinking internationally on critical new challenges facing democracy.In 2015, the Congress provided NED with additional funds to develop a strategic plan to respond to resurgent authoritarianism.  As part of this plan, NED now funds programs that address six strategic priorities: helping civil society respond to repression; defending the integrity of the information space; countering extremism and promoting pluralism and tolerance; reversing the failure of governance in many transitional countries; countering the kleptocracy that is a pillar of modern authoritarianism; and strengthening cooperation among democracies in meeting the threat to democracy.By pursuing common strategic objectives, the entire NED effort has become stronger and more integrated, with greater cooperation taking place across the different regions and among the five institutions – NED and its four core institutes – that comprise what we call the NED family.As Canada thinks about how to establish an effective – and cost-effective – way to advance democracy in the world, I suggest that you consider the distinction that is drawn in a new European report between what it calls top-down and bottom-up approaches to democracy assistance.  In essence, the top-down approach supports the incremental reform of, for example, the judiciary or other institutions, often in a technocratic way and in partnership with governments that may be only superficially committed to democratic reform.  The alternative bottom-up approach responds to and seeks to empower local actors to address immediate challenges they face and to develop their capacity to promote reform and institutional accountability over the long term.The report recommends a “substantial strengthening of the bottom-up instruments” such as the European Endowment for Democracy, an organization modeled on NED that the report says has been effective in dealing with the current difficult challenges.I want to conclude by stating my strong and long-held belief that Canada has the ability to make an important contribution to strengthening democracy internationally, especially at this very uncertain moment when liberal democracy is under attack around the world.  You have hundreds of dedicated democracy practitioners, many of them veterans of NDI and IRI programs, who have the experience to lead a new Canadian effort.  The U.S. is still engaged in this work, and there is strong bipartisan support in the Congress for what NED does and for human rights and democracy more generally.  But the American voice is now more muted than in the past, and the time has come for Canada to step up and provide a new of source of democratic energy and drive.There are many practical ways that you can help, but the decision to create a new instrument to provide such help will itself be an important act of democratic solidarity, one that will give hope to many brave activists and make our world a safer and more peaceful place.
#Kaine, Ros-Lehtinen, Sasse, Schadlow, Stefanik and Wollack join NED Board of Directors#January 30, 2019#The National Endowment for Democracy (NED) has elected six new members to its Board of Directors. U.S. Senators Tim Kaine (D-VA) and Ben Sasse (R-NE), U.S. Representative Elise Stefanik (R-NY), former U.S. Representative Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), former Deputy National Security Advisor Dr. Nadia Schadlow, and former president of the National Democratic Institute Kenneth Wollack have each been elected to a three-year term on the NED Board.“The Endowment is truly fortunate to welcome these new directors to the NED family,” said NED president Carl Gershman. “Their commitment to advancing freedom and democratic values will benefit our partners in every region of the world. We are deeply grateful for their willingness to support NED’s mission of advancing democracy worldwide.”Gershman also paid tribute to Columbia University professor and retiring board member Dr. Andrew Nathan for his 9 years of service on the NED Board. “We are deeply grateful to Andy for the guidance he offered the Board and the NED staff – especially for his invaluable contributions to help guide and shape our Asia programs in his role as Board expert for Asia,” said Gershman.NED was established in 1983 as a private, nonprofit, grant-making foundation with a mission to strengthen democratic institutions around the world through nongovernmental efforts. With an annual appropriation from the U.S. Congress, the NED Board, which is independent and bipartisan, makes more than 1600 grants each year to support projects that promote political and economic freedom and participation, human rights, a strong civil society, independent media and the rule of law.The Hon. Tim Kaine is a United States Senator from Virginia and was the 2016 Democratic Party nominee for Vice President. A civil rights lawyer by training, Kaine began his career in public service in 1994 when he was elected to the Richmond City Council and was later elected Mayor in 1998. He became Lieutenant Governor of Virginia in 2002 and was inaugurated as Virginia’s 70th Governor in 2006. Elected to the Senate in 2012, Kaine serves on the Senate Armed Services, Budget, Foreign Relations, and Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committees.The Hon. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen served for almost three decades as a member of Congress representing diverse areas in South Florida. She is currently a Senior Advisor at the law firm Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP. Rep. Ros-Lehtinen is the Chairwoman emeritus of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs.The Hon. Ben Sasse is a United States Senator from Nebraska, elected to his first term in 2014. He has held senior positions in three Cabinet departments. He is a member of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence. Born in Plainview, Nebraska, Sasse earned a doctorate in American history from Yale University. He taught at the University of Texas and served as an Assistant Secretary in the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. In 2010, he was named president of Midland University in Fremont, Nebraska.Dr. Nadia Schadlow is a Senior Fellow at Hudson Institute. She was most recently U.S. Deputy National Security Advisor for Strategy. Prior to joining the National Security Council, Dr. Schadlow was a Senior Program Officer in the International Security and Foreign Policy Program of the Smith Richardson Foundation, where she helped identify strategic issues that warrant further attention from the U.S. policy community. She served on the Defense Policy Board from September 2006 to June 2009 and is a full member of the Council on Foreign Relations.The Hon. Elise Stefanik represents New York’s 21st District in the U.S. House of Representatives. She is a Member of the Armed Services Committee, the Committee on Education and the Workforce, and the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence.Kenneth Wollack has been actively involved in foreign affairs, journalism and politics over the past four decades. He served as the president of the National Democratic Institute (NDI), a nongovernmental organization dedicated to advancing democracy worldwide, and one of the NED’s four core institutes. Wollack retired from NDI in September 2018. Mr. Wollack joined NDI in 1986 as executive vice president and was elected NDI president in March 1993. Before joining NDI, he co-edited the Middle East Policy Survey, a Washington-based newsletter. He also wrote regularly on foreign affairs for the Los Angeles Times. From 1973 to 1980, he served as legislative director of the American Israel Public Affairs Committee (AIPAC).CONTACT: Jane Riley Jacobsen, jane@ned.org, (202) 378-9604
#NED mourns the passing of dear friend and colleague Nadia Diuk#January 24, 2019#It was with deep sadness the Board and staff of the National Endowment for Democracy (NED) learned of the passing of our long-time colleague and friend Nadia Diuk.  Nadia, who had served the Endowment for 32 years, most recently as Senior Advisor and previously as Vice President for Programs, died at home on January 23, 2019 after a long illness.National Endowment for Democracy President Carl Gershman spoke for all who knew and worked with Nadia, saying, “Nadia blessed us with her work, her dedication, her brilliance, and her friendship.  We loved her deeply, and she will be missed by us all. May her soul rest in peace.” The daughter of Ukrainian refugees who fled to Great Britain during World War II, Nadia dedicated her life and work to the advancement of freedom and democracy not just in Ukraine, but throughout the entire region that had been dominated by, and later liberated from, the Soviet Union. Nadia came to NED as a program officer in 1987, three years after the Endowment’s founding, and went on to lead the NED’s grant making in Europe and Eurasia, providing crucial support to countless civil-society groups throughout Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union.  Later in her career, she added Latin America and the Caribbean and Africa programs to her NED portfolio.On January 22, 2019, a day before her passing, Nadia received The Order of Princess Olga (III degree), one of Ukraine’s highest state honors, from the President of Ukraine in recognition of her life’s work in furthering democracy and supporting Ukraine’s sovereignty. Marc Plattner, the co-editor of NED’s Journal of Democracy and first Director of Programs, and who worked closely with Nadia throughout her tenure at NED, reflected that “Nadia was deeply committed to her Ukrainian heritage, but she was no less committed to freedom and democracy–not only for the people of Ukraine, but for peoples everywhere. She will be sorely missed by all who witnessed her unrelenting labors in support of democracy in the former Soviet bloc and around the world.”A historian by training, Nadia’s work was informed by her deep knowledge and research about the diverse peoples of the Soviet Union and the “Captive Nations.”  She co-authored two books, the Hidden Nations (1990), and New Nations Rising (1992), detailing the struggles of these populations for freedom and self-determination.  In 2012, she authored a third book, The Next Generation in Russia, Ukraine, and Azerbaijan.Barbara Haig, NED’s Deputy to the President for Policy and Strategy, who worked hand in hand with Nadia for decades, said, “Nadia’s contribution to NED, Ukraine, and the democracy world writ large cannot be measured.  With her calm grace she fought the good fight, finding and nurturing younger generations of democratic activists throughout Eurasia, and helping them to define and find constructive ways to work toward achieving their dreams.” On a personal note, Barbara added that Nadia “loved to walk the side streets of cities in Eastern Europe, tracking down the best historical maps of Ukraine and the borderlands in small dusty shops, and was a dedicated member of the choir at her church and at NED Holiday parties.  She demonstrated so much courage these last two years of struggle — she uplifted and inspired us all. We loved her and will miss her.”Read NED President Carl Gershman’s eulogy delivered at Nadia Diuk’s memorial service.
#International Forum for Democratic Studies January 2019 Newsletter#January 23, 2019#Recent episodes feature Larry Diamond on “China and the Global Challenge to Democracy,” Glenn Tiffert on “New Frontiers in Digital Censorship,” and Nadège Rolland on “The Evolution of China’s Belt and Road.” Power 3.0 is hosted by NED Vice President for Studies and Analysis Christopher Walker and Senior Director of the International Forum for Democratic Studies Shanthi Kalathil.Sign up to receive notices about future podcast episodes and blog posts, and subscribe to the Power 3.0 podcast on Android, Apple Podcasts (iTunes), Google Play, Overcast, Pocket Casts, PodBean, Spotify, Stitcher, and Tune In.The October 2018 issue of the Journal of Democracy investigates the trends underlying recent changes in Latin America’s political landscape – from the sweeping victory of Andrés Manuel López Obrador in Mexico to the impeachment of President Pedro Pablo Kuczynski in Peru.Reagan-Fascell Fellow and civil society activist Vera Gogokhia discusses the role of youth in the recent Georgian elections and considers the roots of the current disconnect between political parties and young people. NED’s Vice President for Studies and Analysis Christopher Walker testified on the threat of sharp power to the integrity of democracies in the context of cultural diplomacy before the Canadian Standing Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs and International Trade.The latest issue of Democracy Research News highlights regional research from members of the global Network of Democracy Research Institutes. To submit comments or to inquire about joining the Network, please write to Melissa Aten.Emeka Umejei discusses how Chinese investments may contribute to the replication of an authoritarian model of Internet governance with adverse consequences for democracy, freedom of expression, and human rights.The International Forum’s Dean Jackson asked five leading experts about the role that “deepfakes,” emerging applications, and other forms of synthetic media may play in threatening to supercharge the disinformation crisis. The July 2018 "quick hits" newsletter provides updates on recent events and...On Tuesday June 17, the National Endowment for Democracy...Dean Jackson of the International Forum for Democratic...Shanthi Kalathil delves into China's unprecedented...In 2018, a peaceful protest movement brought down Armenia’s...
#“Safeguarding Democracies Against Authoritarian Sharp Power”#January 22, 2019#Like a growing number of countries, Canada is contending with some vexing challenges to its democracy posed by ambitious and more internationally active authoritarian states. Writing for Policy Options, NED Vice President for Studies and Analysis Christopher Walker assesses the risk posed to multiple sectors—media, universities, academic publishers, technology, elections—by autocratic regimes capable of exerting influence beyond their national borders in an era of hyper-globalization. The threat from authoritarian countries like China, Russia, Saudi Arabia, and Iran is multidimensional and requires a full spectrum response, including the active participation of civil society. Initiatives like the Rapid Response Mechanism (RRM) initiated in 2018 under Canada’s G7 presidency to defend against foreign threats could offer a valuable model of cooperation for future efforts to defend democracy.A concerted response is needed to the challenges presented by such authoritarian regimes. Any effort to strengthen resilience and defend democracy’s integrity must be durable. It will require effective cooperation and dedicated channels for information sharing.  "Power 3.0 | Authoritarian Resurgence, Democratic Resilience" is a podcast that...The National Endowment for Democracy (NED) will present...The International Forum for Democratic Studies' October...With great sadness, the National Endowment for Democracy...The April 2019 issue of the Journal of Democracy features...As part of its "Big Question" feature, the International Forum asks five experts...
#Journal of Democracy January 2019 Issue: The Road to Digital Unfreedom#January 16, 2019#The Journal of Democracy‘s January 2019 issue features a set of four articles examining the growing threat of digital repression:Also in the January 2019 issue:Plus:For the complete Table of Contents, visit www.journalofdemocracy.org. In her CIMA report, Shanthi Kalathil delves into China’s unprecedented attempts...NED President Carl Gershman asks, "Does Democracy Matter?"...Writing for Foreign Affairs, Christopher Walker, Shanthi...Democratization scholars analyze historical cases of...Forum director Shanthi Kalathil reviews Nadege Rolland's "China's Eurasian Century?...
#NED Reflects on 2018#December 27, 2018#We asked parting NED Board Members, Will Marshall,...Andrew H. Card Jr., former White House chief of staff..."John McCain was one of the great freedom fighters...Current events suggest that Angola today faces an economic...The National Endowment for Democracy’s 2018 Democracy Award honors the civil...
#Grantee Spotlight: Central American Institute of Fiscal Studies#December 18, 2018# The Northern Triangle of Central America, consisting of Guatemala, Honduras and El Salvador, is well-known for its violence and instability, with government corruption and impunity fueling the region’s lawlessness. Though conditions in the Northern Triangle to have improved somewhat since the peak dysfunction of the 70s and 80s, the challenges confronting the region’s democrats and citizen activists remain immense. In order to help empower civil society and strengthen democracy and the rule of law in the region, NED has provided grant support to the Central American Institute of Fiscal Studies (ICEFI), a think tank that not only conducts traditional in-depth analysis of fiscal and public policies, but “goes beyond the traditional [fiscal policy] concept of just revenues and expenditures,” explains Ricardo Barrientos, ICEFI’s senior economist. “We include fiscal transparency [and] citizen participation in fiscal policy decisions.” The result is a comprehensive and holistic view of how policies do or do not serve the goals of government accountability and transparency.ICEFI’s website is constantly updated with breaking fiscal and other policy news in the region. They have also put out several significant publications, including the 2017 report Corruption: Its Path and Impact on Society and an Agenda to Combat It in the Northern Triangle of Central America. The report quantifies the social costs of corruption by, in one case, highlighting the percentage of different Ministries’ budgets lost to specific corruption cases or schemes, and the impact this had on public goods and services.If there was any doubt whether ICEFI’s work was making a real difference in the fight against corruption, a recent meeting Barrientos had with a judge who specializes in corruption cases leaves no doubt about the organization’s influence: “I was surprised that one of the judges…had [ICEFI’s] book, all [marked up] and heavily used…and the judge told me ‘Oh, this is my Bible!’” Barrientos explained, laughing.To learn more about ICEFI and benefit from their extraordinary reporting, visit https://www.centralamericadata.com.2018 Democracy Award will honors civil society movement...Khalil Parsa is a key human rights advocate and anti-corruption...Transparency and the Struggle for Accountability in...2018 Democracy Award will honors civil society movement...Mar 19, 2015Former Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellow Rafael Marques de Morais...
#China’s Global Challenge to Democracy, Corrosive Capital in Central Asia, and More From NED’s International Forum for Democratic Studies#December 14, 2018#In the inaugural episode of the Forum’s new podcast, “Power 3.0 | Authoritarian Resurgence, Democratic Resilience,” Journal of Democracy co-editor Larry Diamond discusses “China and the Global Challenge to Democracy” with podcast co-hosts Christopher Walker and Shanthi Kalathil. Subscribe to the new podcast here.The Hoover Institution’s Glenn Tiffert explores how structural and technological shifts in the global information environment are creating new opportunities for authoritarian regimes to manipulate information at the source in, “New Frontiers in Digital Censorship.” Emeka Umejei discusses the extent to which Chinese investments may contribute to the replication of an authoritarian model of Internet governance with adverse consequences for democracy, freedom of expression, and human rights in “The Imitation Game: Will China’s Investments Reshape African Interests?”In “India’s Interest in a Democratic Indo-Pacific,” Constantino Xavier outlines how the simultaneous rise of a democratic India and an authoritarian China impact the future of democracy in Asia and beyond.Building upon the Center for International Private Enterprise‘s assessment of “corrosive capital” in the Balkans and other regions, Eric Hontz examines the role of Chinese and Russian investment in perpetuating poor governance in Central Asia. During her December 11 presentation, “Is the Party Over? Youth, Political Parties, and Elections in Georgia,” Vera Gogokhia discussed the role of youth in the recent Georgian elections, considered the roots of the current disconnect between political parties and young people, and discussed whether the gap can be bridged.Ivan Krastev explained why illiberal and anti-Western sentiments continue to rise in Russia and Central Europe, and discussed how democratic forces can respond to this challenge during his November 5 discussion on “Imitation and its Discontents: Democratic Malaise in Post-Communist Europe.” NED Vice President for Studies and Analysis Christopher Walker testified on the threat of sharp power to the integrity of democracies in the context of cultural diplomacy before the Canadian Standing Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs and International Trade on November 1. Democratic societies must reckon with the challenges presented by sharp power. The challenge is multifaceted, and so must be any response. Society-wide responses are needed that take into account the reality that the democracies cannot rely solely on governmental measures for meeting what is a complex, multidimensional challenge. At the same time, democracies must take care that they do not make things worse. Democratic systems cannot sacrifice their own standards and values as a way of safeguarding against the authoritarian sharp power.—Christopher Walker, testimony before Canadian Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs and International Trade We are pleased to announce its Fall 2018 cohort of Reagan-Fascell and Hurford...The event explored challenges to peace and security,...Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellow George Sarpong examined...Read the welcome and introductions by Carl Gershman.
#On International Human Rights Day 2018, NED honors the memory of Lyudmila Alexseyeva, Russian human rights pioneer and co-founder of Moscow Helsinki Group#December 11, 2018#With great sadness, the National Endowment for Democracy (NED) mourns the loss Lyudmila Alexseyeva, the “’Grandmother’ of the Russian Human Rights Movement,” who died Saturday in Moscow at the age of 91.  Alekseyeva, a co-founder of the Moscow Helsinki Group (MHG) received the Endowment’s 2004 Democracy Award.“Lyuda Alexseyeva was a gentle and humble person, yet also a very powerful and determined defender of basic human rights and democratic values,” said NED president Carl Gershman. “She played a profoundly important and pioneering role in creating the Moscow Helsinki Group in 1976 and in using the Helsinki process to raise the banner for human rights in the Soviet Union.” “Lyudmila did not always side with the most radical and outspoken of the Russian dissidents,” said NED senior advisor Nadia Diuk. “but without her, that diverse and motley gathering may never have become the powerful force Moscow Helsinki Group. Her effective leadership of the human rights movement resulted in intense political pressure that landed her in exile in the U.S. for sixteen years.  Even in exile, she made important contributions to the struggle against Soviet Communism.“Once exiled to the U.S. she continued her tireless work by chronicling all aspects of Soviet unrest,” said Diuk.  “For example, her scrupulous study on worker strikes and unrest since the 1950’s and her publication of the seminal work “Soviet Dissent” that introduced an English reading public to the diversity of religious, national, and labor protest against the Soviet regime, previously unknown in the West, that went well beyond the intellectuals in Moscow. “When she finally returned to Moscow in the 1990’s, she again tirelessly set about rebuilding the MHG, but this time with an emphasis on nurturing next generation leaders, encouraging activism, and broadening the movement throughout the country. She was a strong moral voice that was always tempered with realism. Putin listened to her, but not everyone agreed with her approach. Nonetheless, she continued to work to fulfill her vision of a better Russia, inspiring hundreds of people along the way, right up to the end.”“I’m very proud that the NED honored Lyudmila in 2004 with our Democracy Award,” said Gershman. “No one has deserved it more.  She was a monumental figure and also a very dear friend. We mourn her death and will do our best to carry forward the humane values that she cherished.”The International Forum for Democratic Studies and the Eurasia Program at...In a new report by the International Forum for Democratic...“Sharp Power: Rising Authoritarian Influence,”...Read Carl Gershman's opening remarks at IRI's Democracy Backlash Seminar.
#The fate of freedom in Tibet hinges on democracy in China#November 29, 2018#Economic liberalization failed to bring political liberalization to China, which has only grown more repressive.  NED president Carl Gershman reflects on the life and legacy of His Holiness the Dalai Lama’s special envoy Lodi Gyari and the relationship between democracy in China and freedom in Tibet.“The death last month of Lodi Gyari, who as the Dalai Lama’s special envoy conducted nine rounds of negotiations with Beijing over Tibet’s status, offers an occasion to reflect on the increasingly troubled relationship between the United States and China.The negotiations conducted by Gyari in 2002 through 2010 were based on the Dalai Lama’s Middle Way Approach, which seeks genuine autonomy for the Tibetan people within the framework of the existing Chinese state and constitution. Earlier in his career, when he was an interpreter for the Tibetan resistance fighters training in the United States and helped found the Tibetan Youth Congress, Gyari was committed to the struggle for Tibetan independence. He never changed his belief that Tibet is “in every sense an occupied nation, brutally occupied.” But he became persuaded that the Dalai Lama’s vision of autonomy offered a nonviolent way to preserve the Tibetan people’s religion, culture, language and identity. And after conducting exploratory talks in China in the 1980s during the period of reform under Deng Xiaoping and Hu Yaobang, he believed that such an approach was feasible.”The April 2019 issue of the Journal of Democracy features a set of five articles...Recent English and Chinese-language articles published...NED Vice President for Studies and Analysis Christopher...International Forum for Democratic Studies Executive...Dean Jackson of the International Forum for Democratic Studies spoke with George...
#NED VP Christopher Walker Testifies on Sharp Power before Canadian Senate Committee#November 26, 2018#On Thursday, November 1, the Canadian Standing Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs and International Trade met to continue its study on the impact and utilization of Canadian culture and arts in Canadian foreign policy and diplomacy, and other related matters. NED Vice President for Studies and Analysis Christopher Walker testified on the threat of sharp power to the integrity of democracies in the context of cultural diplomacy, emphasizing the malign objectives pursued by authoritarian governments under the guise of shaping public opinion and perceptions around the world.Democratic societies must reckon with the challenges presented by sharp power. The challenge is multifaceted, and so must be any response. Society-wide responses are needed that take into account the reality that the democracies cannot rely solely on governmental measures for meeting what is a complex, multidimensional challenge. At the same time, democracies must take care that they do not make things worse. Democratic systems cannot sacrifice their own standards and values as a way of safeguarding against the authoritarian sharp power. Image Credit: Flickr/Michel Rathwell Harry Harding presently holds a dual appointment as...In this episode of Democracy Ideas, Peter Pomerantsev...This project gives a rare glimpse into a situation...He addressed the struggle for democracy and the rule of law in China.
#NED Welcomes New Fellows from Burma, Georgia, Ghana, Iran, the Philippines, and Ukraine#November 20, 2018#The National Endowment for Democracy (NED) is pleased to announce its Fall 2018 cohort of Reagan-Fascell and Hurford Youth Fellows.In residence are leading democracy activists, practitioners, journalists, and scholars from a wide range of countries, including Burma, Georgia, Ghana, Iran, the Philippines, and Ukraine.Named in honor of President Ronald Reagan and the late Congressman Dante Fascell (D-Fl.), whose bipartisan vision led to NED’s founding, the Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellows Program seeks to expand the knowledge, broaden the perspectives, build the capacity, and boost the morale of some of the world’s most committed and courageous democracy advocates.Based at the International Forum for Democratic Studies, a leading center for analysis and discussion of the theory and practice of democracy around the world, the Reagan-Fascell program has enabled more than 290 fellows from over 90 countries to deepen their understanding of democracy and enhance their ability to work toward democratic change.America's founding values are our nation's greatest strategic asset and strongest...Jessica Ludwig of the International Forum for Democratic...Mr. Raza Ahmad Rumi is a leading Pakistani journalist...Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellow Oludotun Babayemi examined...The National Endowment for Democracy (NED) will donate papers from its founding...
#Democracy Research News November 2018#November 19, 2018# “Imitation and Its Discontents” – On November 5, 2018, Ivan Krastev, chairman of the Centre for Liberal Strategies (Bulgaria), presented “Imitation and Its Discontents” at the National Endowment for Democracy’s International Forum for Democratic Studies. The talk stemmed from Krastev’s July 2018 Journal of Democracy article by the same name.Krastev explains why, following the collapse of communism, the countries in Central Europe faced both internal and external pressure to “imitate the West” by adopting many of its democratic institutions and norms. Despite the advantages this may have brought, it also has generated feelings of a loss of sovereignty and ushered in a period of growing malaise. As global authoritarian forces continue to rise, even the once seemingly consolidated democracies of Central Europe appear to be turning away from “Western” values of liberalism and embracing their own notion of “the real Europe.”The Democratic Decay Resource, designed to be a hub, resource, and platform for researchers and policymakers focused on addressing democratic decay around the world,  formally launched in October. The Resource contains seven key sections: research guides, a concept index, experts database, events database, teaching materials, campaigns, and links.The V-Dem Institute (Sweden) has released V-Dem Graphing Tools, a new platform for data visualization. The Tools feature “variable and country graphs, interactive maps, and motion charts. The simple and user-friendly interfaces allow you to explore 450 aspects of democracy for all countries in the world over the last 100 years.”The Institute has also announced that its Policy Dialogue Day, focusing on “New Challenges to Democracy, Governance, and Peace,” will take place on Wednesday May 22, 2019, at the Wallenberg Conference Center in Gothenburg, Sweden. The event is organized jointly by the V-Dem (Varieties of Democracy) Institute, the QoG (Quality of Government) Institute, GLD-Gothenburg (Program for Governance and Local Development), UCDP (Uppsala Conflict Data Program), and ViEWS (Dataset on early warnings of political violence).  The Center for International Private Enterprise (CIPE), the National Democratic Institute (NDI), and the NED’s Center for International Media Assistance (CIMA) are working together to connect civic, political, and private sector leaders from around the world to defend internet freedom. The Open Internet for Democracy initiative fosters the global Open Internet for Democracy Community to provide a platform where digital rights advocates can network and share best practices to promote norms articulated in the Democratic Principles for an Open Internet. This initiative also features the Open Internet for Democracy Leaders Program that empowers emerging leaders from across the globe to build their advocacy and organizing skills to protect internet freedom.  CIPE, NDI, and CIMA encourage everyone interested in the topic of open internet to join their mailing list and follow them on Twitter @OpenNetGlobal.The International Forum for Democratic Studies (United States) published an issue brief on “The Demand Side of the Disinformation Crisis,” which explains the cognitive factors which make audiences vulnerable to disinformation, technological factors driving the consumption and spread of disinformation, and implications of disinformation’s “demand side” for the democratic response.The Forum also asked five leading experts, “How will ‘Deepfakes’ and Emerging Technology Transform Disinformation?” held a Q&A with Vidushi Marda on “Civil Society, Artificial Intelligence, and the Future of Free Expression,” and published a blog post on “Authoritarian Anticorruption Campaigns: A Tool to Consolidate Power.”The October issue of the Journal of Democracy features a cluster of articles on “Latin America’s Shifting Politics,” investigating the trends underlying the recent changes in Latin America’s political landscape. The cluster includes Kenneth F. Greene and Mariano Sanchez-Telanquer on the sweeping victory of leftist candidate Andrés Manuel López Obrador in Mexico’s July elections; Alberto Vergara on the impeachment of President Pedro Pablo Kuczynski in Peru; Steven Levitsky with an assessment of democracy’s overall fortunes in the region; Forrest D. Colburn and Arturo Cruz S. on Costa Rica; Laura Gamboa on Colombia; Carlos de la Torre on Ecuador; and Jean-Paul Faguet on Bolivia. The issue also features Francis Fukuyama explaining the enduring salience of national identity, Richard Wike and Janell Fetterold analyzing trends in global public support for liberal democracy, and much more. Afrobarometer released new data on citizens’ perceptions of the Truth, Reconciliation and Reparation Commission, the Constitutional Review Commission, migration, and security sector reforms in the Gambia.The Centre for Development and Enterprise (CDE) published an op-ed on the outcomes of the recent presidential Jobs Summit held from October 4-5, 2018. Unemployment in South Africa remains a huge challenge with close to 10 million people unemployed across the country. CDE also developed an infographic to highlight the scale of the crisis.The Ghana Center for Democratic Development (CDD-Ghana) published a September 2018 special edition newsletter focusing on “Making Democracy Work for All Ghanaians in the Fourth Republic.” The newsletter features recommendations on how to foster greater inclusion in governance within the country.The Center for Democracy and Development – West Africa published a report entitled “After Boko Haram: Prospects for Transitional Justice in North East Nigeria,” which shows that, though the level of violence in Nigeria has declined since 2015, more comprehensive and community-specific approaches to reconciliation and justice are still needed. The Asia Democracy Research Network published two reports: “Electoral Violence Against Bangladesh’s Religious Minorities: Challenges and the Way Forward,” focusing on steps the Bangladeshi government must take to reduce the persecutions that occur against religious minorities and indigenous people during parliamentary elections; and “Pakistan’s 11th General Election: Outcomes and Implications for Democracy,”  which analyzes the July 2018 General Election in Pakistan and highlights the concern over increasing over-reach of the military in politics and democratic governance.The Pakistan Institute of Legislative Development and Transparency (PILDAT) released an “Assessment of the Quality of General Election 2018,” along with an updated “Monitor on Civil-Military Relations in Pakistan.” The Assessment finds that the overall quality score of the 2018 elections stands at 51.79%, dropping nearly 5 percentage points from the 2013 score of 56.76%. The Access to Information Programme (Bulgaria) launched the English translation of the report “Access to Information in Bulgaria 2017. It contains recommendations regarding the access to information legal framework and its implementation; an assessment of the regulations in the access to information area; analysis of the results from the assessment of the proactive transparency of 567 institutions for 2018; analyses of the access to information cases referred to AIP for legal help and consultation during 2017; tendencies in court practices on access to information cases in 2017, and 6 annexes.The Association for International Affairs (Czech Republic) published “Illiberalism in the V4: Pressure Points and Bright Spots,” a study focusing on the Visegrád countries and the similar patterns among them that play a role in the new illiberal trend in Central Europe.The Institute of Public Affairs (Poland) published “Youth, Politics, Democracy: Public Opinion Research in Hungary, Poland, and Slovakia.” The study finds that support for democracy is widespread, but conditional; youth are dissatisfied and disengaged from politics; anti-immigrant sentiment is strong, but not a a top-concern; and Facebook is a leading source of information for youth in the region.Peter Kreko, director of Political Capital (Hungary) co-authored a piece for Foreign Affairs entitled, “How Putin’s Favorite Biker Gang Infiltrated NATO.” Kreko explains how a pro-Russian biker gang, the Night Wolves Europe, set up base outside of Bratislava, and how Slovakia and NATO must respond.The Quality of Government Institute (Sweden) issued a working paper on “Exploring the Shades of Corruption Tolerance: Three Lessons from Iceland and Sweden,” which aims to map variations in corruption tolerance in two low-corrupt countries, and identify factors that influence tolerance of corruption at the individual level. The Center for the Opening and Development of Latin America (CADAL, Argentina) published three English-language articles in August: “The G20, civil society, and democratic commitment,” which argues that the G20 cannot succeed without the support of civil society groups; “Human Rights and Economic Policy Under the Argentine Military Dictatorship, 1976-1983,” which outlines how domestic politics—especially the politics of human rights—can become intertwined with, opposed, and shaped by economic interests; and “Milada Horáková: Defender of Democracy Against Totalitarianism in Czechoslovakia,” in observance of the Day of Remembrance for the Victims of Totalitarianism.In November 2018, Latinobarometro published its 23rd annual report, showcasing public opinion data on socio-economic conditions in 18 countries in Latin America. The report shows that nearly all political, economic, and social indicators fell in 2018, some reaching the lowest levels since report measurements began in 1995.The State of the Nation Program (Costa Rica) launched “The 2018 State of the Nation Report” on November 13 (en español). The Report assesses Costa Rica’s performance on Human Development in 2017 and the first half of 2018. The Israel Democracy Institute published an article on “Local Government and Local Elections: Time to Move Away from Centralized Thinking,” focusing on “reforms to enhance the compatibility of the [Israeli electoral] system to the characteristics and needs of different localities.”The Lebanese Center for Policy Studies published a policy brief on “Combating Corruption, a Necessary Step Toward Improving Infrastructure,” highlighting how corruption threatens Lebanon’s public infrastructure investments. The International Forum for Democratic Studies (United States) published a blog post on its blog, Power 3.0, entitled, “Corrosive Capital in Central Asia: Perpetuating Poor Governance.” Building upon the Center for International Private Enterprise‘s assessment of “corrosive capital,” Eric Hontz examines the role of Chinese and Russian investment in perpetuating poor governance in Central Asia. The Center for International Private Enterprise (CIPE) in coordination with New Markets Lab (NML) launched the Digital Economy Enabling Environment Guide: Key Areas of Dialogue for Business and Policymakers on October 4, 2018. The Guide covers four priority topics including, Consumer Protection, Data Protection, Cybersecurity, and Electronic Transactions (e-payments and e-signatures).Francis Fukuyama, director of Stanford University’s Center on Democracy, Development, and the Rule of Law (United States) published a new book: Identity: The Demand for Dignity and the Politics of Resentment.  Michael Coppedge is professor of political science at the University of Notre...Zora Bútorová is a resident scholar of the Institute...The April 2018 edition of the Forum newsletter explores...Democracy Research News is the electronic newsletter...The International Forum is pleased to welcome nine...The September 2018 edition of the Forum newsletter features new content, event...
#Latin America’s Shifting Politics, Tools for Responding to Authoritarian Interference, and More from NED’s International Forum for Democratic Studies#November 1, 2018#The October 2018 Journal of Democracy features a seven-article cluster on recent changes in Latin America’s political landscape, an essay on “Why National Identity Matters,” and more. All articles in the issue can be viewed free of charge on Project MUSE through November 17.The International Forum asks five leading experts: How will “Deepfakes” and Emerging Technology Transform Disinformation? Amy Studdart outlines how democracies can better protect themselves from authoritarian election meddling in “Cybersecurity for Political Campaigns in the Digital Age.”In “Authoritarian Anticorruption Campaigns: A Tool to Consolidate Power,” Clay Fuller explains how authoritarian regimes “manipulate anticorruption campaigns to consolidate power and manage perceptions at home and abroad.”Laura Rosenberger argues that governments, private sector actors, and civil society must work together to create a cohesive strategy for strengthening democracy  in “Responding to Authoritarian Interference: Leveraging the Democratic Toolkit.”“Not the Droids You Were Looking For: Bots and the Weaponization of Star Wars,” by Dean Jackson, examines how “Russian influence operations may have played a role in generating controversy over the fan reception to Star Wars Episode VIII: The Last Jedi.” Ivan Krastev will explain why illiberal and anti-Western sentiments continue to rise in Russia and Central Europe, and discuss how democratic forces can respond to this challenge during his November 5 discussion on “Imitation and its Discontents: Democratic Malaise in Post-Communist Europe.”  Writing for Foreign Affairs, Christopher Walker, Shanthi Kalathil, and Jessica Ludwig evaluate the increasing role of civil society in the fight against authoritarian influence.Joseph Nye and Shanthi Kalathil joined the Pacific Council’s 2018 Teleconference Series to advocate for a “soft power” response to the “sharp power” tactics employed by authoritarian regimes.In a piece for Foreign Policy, Christopher Walker, Shanthi Kalathil, and Jessica Ludwig offer strategies for measuring authoritarian sharp power efforts.Authoritarian powers are defining the battlefield in ways advantageous to them—meaning that symmetric responses are often more difficult or less effective for democracies to undertake, in some cases because responding in kind would be inconsistent with democratic values.– Laura Rosenberger, Responding to Authoritarian Interference: Leveraging the Democratic Toolkit Michael Shifter is president of the Inter-American Dialogue, a Washington-based...Read Luis Almagro's remarks from Latin America & the...Professor João Carlos Espada spoke about his new book,...Leading experts on the Balkans discussed the future...Writing for Foreign Affairs, Christopher Walker, Shanthi Kalathil, and Jessica...
#NED Remembers Lodi Gyari (1949-2018)#October 29, 2018#It is with great sadness that the National Endowment for Democracy (NED) learned today of the passing of longtime friend and partner Lodi Gyari, a tireless fighter for the rights of the Tibetan people.“Lodi Gyari was a monumental figure in the history of the Tibetan struggle to resist Chinese oppression and to preserve the identity, religion, and cultural integrity of Tibetan Buddhists,” said NED president Carl Gershman.“From his co-founding of the Tibetan Youth Congress in 1970, to his leadership of the International Campaign for Tibet, to his role as His Holiness the Dalai Lama’s Special Envoy in conducting negotiations with Beijing to resolve peacefully the issue of Tibet’s status, Lodi Gyari was a Tibetan leader of enormous stature and accomplishment.  He was also well-known and greatly respected in the U.S. Congress and in Washington policy circles, and he played a pivotal role in building the close relationship between the United States and Tibet.“Lodi was a devoted democrat who helped develop the democratic institutions of the Tibetan community in exile, and who fervently emphasized and explained the importance of India’s democracy to the cause of democracy worldwide.  Not least, he was a dear friend and cherished adviser of the NED, where he will be deeply mourned and long remembered.”The Board of Directors and staff of the NED offer their sincere condolences to Lodi Gyari’s family and friends and to all who carry on his work on behalf of the Tibetan people.
#Journal of Democracy October 2018 Issue: Latin America’s Shifting Politics#October 23, 2018#  How is the decline of established parties transforming politics in Latin America—and beyond? When democracies come under pressure, what forces and conditions are key to their survival? Why are authoritarian regimes turning to regional organizations as a tool for bolstering fellow autocrats?In the October 2018 issue of the Journal of Democracy, a set of seven articles investigates the trends underlying recent changes in Latin America’s political landscape—from the sweeping victory of leftist candidate Andrés Manuel López Obrador in Mexico’s July elections (Kenneth F. Greene and Mariano Sánchez-Talanquer) to the impeachment of President Pedro Pablo Kuczynski in Peru (Alberto Vergara). The cluster on “Latin America’s Shifting Politics” also features:Also in the October 2018 issue:For the complete Table of Contents, visit www.journalofdemocracy.org. Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellow Martin Krygier critiqued existing ways of thinking...OCT 15, 2015Worth Reading: Journal of Democracy October...The April 2017 issue features a series of articles...This panel discussion will examine the essential benchmarks...The March 2019 edition of the Forum newsletter features...Professor João Carlos Espada spoke about his new book, "The Anglo-American...
#NED Congratulates Dr. Denis Mukwege, winner of 2018 Nobel Peace Prize#October 5, 2018#The National Endowment for Democracy (NED) congratulates Dr. Denis Mukwege, the winner of the 2018 Nobel Peace Prize, which he received jointly with Iraqi Yazidi activist Nadia Murad, both of whom are leading campaigners against rape as a weapon of war. A courageous gynecologist and founder of the Panzi Hospital in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), Dr. Mukwege made it his mission to treat the horrific injuries suffered by thousands of women who were victims of violent rape by the combatants in the protracted and brutal war in Eastern Congo.In 2014, to amplify the need for justice and security sector reform in the DRC, NED made a grant to help fund a documentary about Dr. Mukwege’s heroic work. “The Man who Mends Women,” was an award winning film by director Thierry Michele and Collette Brackeman, co-produced by Les Films de la Passarelle and Ryva Productions. Screened throughout Congo and internationally, including the UnitedNations, the House of Commons, and the European Parliament, the film raised awareness of atrocities committed by the Congolese army and armed groups against women in Eastern Congo and highlighted Dr. Mukwege’s achievements through his work to empower victims of sexual violence.“Denis Mukwege is a model of courage and compassion, attributes that are sorely needed in today’s world,” said NED President Carl Gershman. “We congratulate and thank him for his work.”Learn more about NED’s work in the DRC. Remarks by Carl Gershman at Voices from the Congo:...The July 2019 issue of the Journal of Democracy features...Voices From Congo: The Road AheadAddressing Human Rights and Governance in Congo:Civil...The National Endowment for Democracy is using the Storify platform to showcase...
#The Big Question: How Will ‘Deepfakes’ and Emerging Technology Transform Disinformation?#October 1, 2018#TWEET | SHARE | PDFDisinformation, the intentional use of false or misleading information for political purposes, is increasingly recognized as a threat to democracy worldwide. Many observers argue that this challenge has been exacerbated by social media and a declining environment for independent news outlets. Now, new advances in technology—including but not limited to “deepfakes” and other forms of synthetic media—threaten to supercharge the disinformation crisis.The International Forum for Democratic Studies asked five leading experts about the role that deepfakes and other emerging applications may play in the disinformation landscape. (Their answers have been edited for length and clarity, and do not necessarily reflect the views of the National Endowment for Democracy.) Nic Dias is a Senior Research Fellow for First Draft. He recently graduated from the Columbia Journalism School and specialized in data and computation. Follow him on Twitter @niccdias.Any robust defense against malicious, newsworthy “deepfakes” and other AI-generated synthetic media is going to have to involve journalists. Their purpose—to seek the truth on behalf of the public—is best aligned to this task. Sophisticated, algorithmically generated fabrications aside though, journalists continued to be fooled by comparably simple cases of photoshopping and imposter social media accounts. A study from ICFJ not long ago found that, while 71 percent of journalists use social media to find new stories, only 11 percent use social media verification tools. The first step, then, in developing a robust defense against malicious, AI-generated synthetic media is to establish standards and norms of verification in newsrooms. Put simply, we need to get journalists to get in the habit of checking images and videos in same way that they now check text-based facts.As is clear from a recent report by First Draft and WITNESS, the means of detecting deepfakes is necessarily computational, though not necessarily automatic. Given this fact, the social platforms will need to be involved in the development of tools to detect these manipulations. They have the resources to fund development of these tools, and are the only actors remotely in a position to effectively scan for distortions. Considerable innovations in reverse video search (the ability to search for other appearances of a video online) have already been made by several start-ups. An effective reverse video search tool alone would go a long way toward helping to identify deepfakes, as well as other kinds of misuses of video.Any robust defense against malicious, newsworthy “deepfakes” and other AI-generated synthetic media is going to have to involve journalists. Their purpose—to seek the truth on behalf of the public—is best aligned to this task.—Nic Dias, First Draft Renée DiResta is the Director of Research at New Knowledge, and Head of Policy at nonprofit Data for Democracy. She investigates the spread of malign narratives across social networks, and assists policymakers in understanding and responding to the problem. She has advised Congress, the State Department, and other academic, civic, and business organizations, and has studied disinformation and computational propaganda in the context of pseudoscience conspiracies, terrorism, and state-sponsored information warfare. Follow her on Twitter @noupside.Influence operation tactics are constantly evolving. As the platforms develop new features, and as new technologies emerge, adversaries immediately evaluate their potential and exploit them—this is an arms race. Disinformation campaigns exploit modern information infrastructure to manipulate a population. Malign actors blanket the social ecosystem with synchronized propaganda to create media mirages that surround targeted groups.​​One of the most challenging shifts in our ability to clear or prevent that mirage will occur when automated accounts—bots—begin to do a passable job of presenting themselves as human when chatting with people. We know that this coming, because there are significant and valuable commercial applications for chatbot technology. We’ve seen the engagement and impact that a handful of human-run sockpuppet (or fraudulent personality) accounts and a handful of fully automated amplifier bots can generate; in the case of Russia’s interference in the 2016 US election, a few thousand human-managed aliases tweeted millions of times and attracted significant audiences.The amplifier bots are presently primitive, and easy to detect. Sophisticated chatbot technology will reduce the cost of operations, and has the potential to eliminate the need for direct human involvement in running fake online accounts. This will enable sophisticated adversaries to run orders of magnitude more accounts—ones that are virtually indistinguishable from real people—and expands the availability of the tactic to less-resourced adversaries. These bots will be able to process cues and engage with the individuals they are targeting. The mirage will get far more personalized and targeted… and as a result, more persuasive.As the platforms develop new features, and as new technologies emerge, adversaries immediately evaluate their potential and exploit them—this is an arms race.—Renée DiResta, New Knowledge Sam Gregory helps people use the power of the moving image and participatory technologies to create human rights change. He is Program Director of WITNESS and he also teaches the first graduate level course at Harvard on harnessing the power of new visual and participatory technologies for human rights change. Follow him on Twitter @SamGregory.The most serious ramification of deepfakes and other forms of synthetic media is that they further damage people’s trust in our shared information sphere and contribute to the move of our default response from trust to mistrust. This could result from either widespread actual usage of deepfakes or widespread rhetorical usage by public figures who call ‘deepfakes’ on news they don’t like or exercise ‘plausible deniability’ on compromising images and audio. Our current tendency to sensationalize deepfakes contributes to this problem.Scenarios for the usage of synthetic media (including the ability to plausibly manipulate facial expressions in video, synthesize someone’s voice, or make subtle removal edits to a video) include ‘floods of falsehood’ created via computational propaganda and individualized microtargeting, which could target discrete individuals with fake audio and overwhelm fact-finding and verification through sheer volume of manipulated content. At the other extreme, a timely ‘credible doppelganger’ of a real person shared in closed messaging apps could incite violence, or a subtle edit of a photo or video could challenge many fact-finding approaches. Right now we are ill-prepared to identify manipulated content, and most forensic approaches do not work at scale. Meanwhile, fact-checking is only just catching up to audio and video.To counter this threat, we need to ask how it combines with the reduced barrier to entry for existing threats. We need to fight malicious deepfakes within the context of existing trends in misinformation and disinformation such as computational propaganda, coordinated organizing by networked malicious actors, the attention economy, and financial and political pressures on media outlets.In our ongoing work on solutions around malicious deepfakes, WITNESS held a first cross-disciplinary expert convening which produced a survey of potential solution areas and ongoing work. More information can be found here.The most serious ramification of deepfakes and other forms of synthetic media is that they further damage people’s trust in our shared information sphere and contribute to the move of our default response from trust to mistrust.—Sam Gregory, WITNESS  Lisa-Maria Neudert is a researcher at the Computational Propaganda project, where her work is located at the nexus of political communication, technology studies, and governance. Her previous research has focused on propaganda, social bots, and fake news—in its relation to the evolving digital media ecosystem. Follow her on Twitter @lmneudert.Political bots—automated software scripts on social media—have been at the center of digital influence campaigns. They distort public discourse with meaningless chatter, amplify extremist viewpoints, and suppress minority voices with hate speech. Facing widespread evidence of bot activity in elections all over the world, social media platforms eventually took action, removing millions of bot accounts in 2018 alone. What’s more, concerns about political bots emerged on the public agenda with user manuals for bot-spotting popping up across major publications in the US—increasing awareness and media literacy.As a result, it may appear that democratic societies are finally gaining the upper hand in the cat-and-mouse game of bot detection. While looming threats from deep fakes, psychographics, and propaganda on “dark social” channels may appear more precarious, the next generation of bots is preparing for attack. This time around political bots will leave repetitive, automated tasks behind, and instead become intelligent: the rapid advances in artificial intelligence and natural language processing that help Amazon’s Alexa and Apple’s Siri get smarter are also teaching propaganda bots how to talk. To drive innovation, toolkits and platforms for natural language processing are open to third party developers; but bad actors also have access and could again leverage sophisticated technologies to manipulate democratic processes. When computational propaganda becomes conversational, bots will become more human and harder to detect than ever.While looming threats from deep fakes, psychographics, and propaganda on “dark social” channels may appear more precarious, the next generation of bots is preparing for attack.—Lisa-Marie Neudert, Computational Propaganda (University of Oxford) Sam Woolley is the research director of the Digital Intelligence Lab at the Institute for the Future, a research associate at the Oxford Internet Institute, and an associate member of Green Templeton College at the University of Oxford. He specializes in the study of automation/AI, political communication, and information warfare. He is also a co-founder and former research director of the Computational Propaganda (ComProp) research team at the University of Oxford and the University of Washington. Follow him on Twitter @samuelwoolley. The spread of propaganda using digital media across multiple elections and security crises in multiple countries has left the world in little doubt as to the rise and repercussions of disinformation. In Myanmar, online rumors about the Muslim Rohingya minority fueled the murders of tens of thousands. In India, disinformation campaigns on Facebook led to harassment of women and attacks upon journalists. Throughout Europe, far-right parties used false online stories about refugee violence against women to propel isolationism and fear.In the future, what emergent technologies will be used to spread computational propaganda? Tools such as artificial intelligence, automated voice systems, machine learning, deepfakes, interactive memes, virtual reality, and augmented reality will make digital disinformation more effective and harder to combat. Deepfakes are getting the lion’s share of attention in relationship to the digital disinformation problem because they can be used to emulate real pictures and video. But future computational propagandists will not only target the visual. Forthcoming campaigns will likely harness our other senses: realistic sounding AI voices represent a new future for push polling and VR will allow for multisensory propaganda experiences.But the future of computational propaganda, while frightening, is also manageable. We may not be able to alter how the internet was used to challenge democracy during moments in years past, but we can follow signals to prevent manipulation in the future. With simulation, we can bring people closer together by putting them in another person’s shoes so they can see, hear and—to a degree—feel what difference is like. We can use online video to challenge people’s mental models and harness new social media platforms to encourage an omnivorous information diet. What has become a deep skepticism about the news media can be redirected into a skepticism about polarizing content and falsehood.Tools such as artificial intelligence, automated voice systems, machine learning, deepfakes, interactive memes, virtual reality, and augmented reality will make digital disinformation more effective and harder to combat.—Sam Woolley, Digital Intelligence Lab (Institute for the Future) A series of three International Forum issue briefs focused on disinformation: “The ‘Demand Side’ of the Disinformation Crisis,” “Distinguishing Disinformation from Propaganda, ‘Fake News,’ and Misinformation,” and “How Disinformation Impacts Politics and Publics,” written by Dean Jackson.“Cybersecurity for Political Campaigns in the Digital Age,” a Power 3.0 blog post by Amy Studdart.Dean Jackson’s February 2018 Q&A with Dipayan Ghosh on the “Commercial Drivers of Precision Propaganda.”Dean Jackson’s July 2017 Q&A with Phil Howard on “Computational Propaganda’s Challenge to Democracy.” Image Credit: Thomas Soellner/Shutterstock The October 2017 issue features six essays on Russia's...With NED support, the Community Media Network (CMN)...As part of its "Big Question" feature, the International...Denys Bihus leads TOM 14, a group of professional investigative...This project gives a rare glimpse into a situation that has begun to raise concerns...
#2018 International Day of Democracy#September 14, 2018#The National Endowment for Democracy’s objective of strengthening democratic groups and institutions in other countries not only reflects the hopes and ideals of the American people, but also is rooted in universally recognized principles of international law. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights and other United Nations agreements (including the Conventions of the International Labor Organization), as well as the Helsinki Final Act, commit governments around the world to honoring the fundamental human rights that are guaranteed to citizens of the United States and other free societies. It is therefore in keeping with established international law for the American people, through an institution such as the National Endowment for Democracy, to help others build democratic institutions and strengthen democratic processes that will promote individual rights and freedoms. Explore the work of NED grantees striving for democracy and freedom around the world.In the wake of the 2013-14 Maidan protests and change of government in Ukraine,...The Man Who Mends Women is the moving story of Dr....NED will honor defenders of human and religious rights...With NED support, Promo-LEX is promoting and defending...The International Forum for Democratic Studies and the Eurasia Program at...
#International Forum for Democratic Studies September 2018 Newsletter: Combating Sharp Power with Soft Power#September 10, 2018#Globalization has enabled authoritarian governments to exert increasing influence within the democracies. This engagement has involved efforts at censorship, or the use of manipulation to sap the integrity of independent institutions. This “sharp power” has the effect of limiting free expression and distorting the political environment. As part of any response, democracies should use their natural competitive advantage and engage civil society to combat sharp power, rather than attempting to engage in equally intrusive campaigns. Kalathil argues that democracies must “rethink how [they] can most effectively project their voices and define their values.”The International Forum explores the cognitive factors that make audiences vulnerable to disinformation, technological factors driving the consumption and spread of disinformation, and the implications of disinformation’s “demand side” for the democratic response.The recent issue features an eight-article cluster on Central and Eastern Europe that analyzes the broader factors behind the dramatic political shifts of recent years. In tandem, the International Forum asks five experts What is the Root Cause of Rising Illiberalism in Central and Eastern Europe?Dean Jackson of the International Forum spoke with Vidushi Marda about the applications of iterative machine learning and how civil society can best contribute to the development of a human rights-conscious framework for AI technology.The July 2018 issue of Democracy Research News highlights regional research from NDRI members around the world. To submit comments or to inquire about joining the Network, please write to Melissa Aten at melissaa@ned.org.Elsa B. Kania examines how China is developing and employing AI to gain global leverage and challenge democratic institutions in “China’s Ambitions in Artificial Intelligence: A Challenge to the Future of Democracy?“Melissa Aten of the International Forum spoke with Zimbabwean lawyer and constitutional expert Alex Magaisa about new political dynamics and what they mean for the future of Zimbabwe in the context of the July 2018 elections.  In the wake of the 2013-14 Maidan protests and change of government in Ukraine,...2006 Seymour Martin Lipset Lecture on Democracy...The March 2019 edition of the Forum newsletter features...Current & Past Fellows2014-2015
#Democracies Should Fight Sharp Power with Soft Power#September 4, 2018#As globalization allows for a growth in targeted authoritarian threats — defined as “sharp power” — democracies find themselves in increasingly vulnerable positions. Democracies must focus on soft power approaches, particularly in the realm of engaging civil society, to combat sharp power threats, rather than attempting to engage in equally intrusive campaigns. Dr. Joseph S. Nye, Jr., and Ms. Shanthi Kalathil spoke to Pacific Council members on the rise of authoritarianism and democratic responses in the fourth installment of the 2018 Summer Teleconference Series. Kalathil argued that “democracies should live by their democratic values while calling out authoritarian behavior and avoid engaging in xenophobic activities that would diminish their true soft power,” and that democracies must “rethink how [they] can most effectively project their voices and define their values.”Nye is a University Distinguished Service Professor, Emeritus, and former dean of the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University who is credited with coining the term “soft power.” Kalathil is the director of the International Forum for Democratic Studies at the National Endowment for Democracy. The discussion was moderated by Ms. Jessica Ludwig, the research and conferences officer at the International Forum for Democratic Studies. Image Credit: Pacific Council on International Policy For years, the quality of healthcare in Ukraine has...Please join the Council of the Americas, Americas Quarterly,...Dr. Lilia Shevtsova delivered the 11th Annual Seymour...Around the world, governments are devising new and...The June 2018 edition of the Forum newsletter explores the latest issue of the...
#Forum Q&A: Vidushi Marda on Civil Society, Artificial Intelligence, and the Future of Free Expression#August 28, 2018#TWEET | SHARE  | PDFVidushi Marda is a legal researcher interested in the interplay between emerging technologies, policy, and society. Currently a Digital Programme Officer with ARTICLE 19′s Team Digital, her primary focus is on the ethical, legal, and regulatory issues that arise from algorithmic decision making. She also works on strengthening human rights considerations in internet infrastructure, particularly at internet governance bodies like ICANN and the IEEE. Additionally, she is a research associate at DATACTIVE at the University of Amsterdam, where she studies content regulation vis-a-vis increased dominance of private platforms on the Internet. Marda previously worked at The Centre for Internet and Society, where she focused on access to knowledge, network neutrality, big data, and strengthening freedom of expression and privacy in Internet governance. Her work has been cited by the Supreme Court of India in a seminal ruling on the right to privacy and by the United Kingdom House of Lords Select Committee on Artificial Intelligence. She has been interviewed by the BBC, Economic Times, CNN-News18, and other outlets.Rapid advances in computer technology and the proliferation of “big data” have enabled the development of sophisticated new statistical models capable of making large-scale inferences about the human world. The resulting use of iterative machine learning, or artificial intelligence (AI), has profound implications for the future of democracy, politics, and human rights—particularly the rights to privacy and free expression. The use of artificial intelligence to influence decisions of consequence for average citizens is already a reality in many countries, and is on track to become more prevalent with time. The application of this technology for mass censorship and surveillance is around the corner. Meanwhile, agreed-upon norms and standards around its use are lacking.Dean Jackson spoke with Vidushi Marda  about Article 19’s new report, “Privacy and Freedom of Expression In the Age of Artificial Intelligence,” for which she served as the primary author. The report makes several suggestions for how civil society can best contribute to the development of a human rights-conscious framework for AI technology. (This interview has been condensed and edited for clarity. The views and opinions expressed within do not necessarily reflect those of the National Endowment for Democracy.) Dean Jackson: Many people think of AI as a fantastic future technology, but your report makes clear that it is already in use and intersecting with human rights. How might citizens encounter AI in their everyday lives?Vidushi Marda: The truth is that AI is already a mundane part of everyday life. For example, AI systems are responsible for autocorrect on cellphones, they decide which advertisements you see on platforms like Facebook and Instagram, and they curate your Facebook and Twitter feed. Depending on where you are in the world, AI may aid with criminal sentencing, estimate how likely you are to commit a future crime, identify your face in a crowd, or decide if you are a trustworthy loan applicant.In fact, AI as a body of work and as field of study has existed for over half a century. Machine learning, or the use of large amounts of data to make statistical inferences, is the most popular AI technique used today and has been practiced for many years.What’s new is that now we have more data, and computers are faster and cheaper than they have ever been before. This has led to the current moment in AI’s development, but it is wrong to think of it as a new technology. Its widespread use and application is current and emerging.Depending on where you are in the world, AI may aid with criminal sentencing, estimate how likely you are to commit a future crime, identify your face in a crowd, or decide if you are a trustworthy loan applicant.The report outlines two broad categories of human rights concerns: those arising from the collection of data, and those arising from the application of that data through AI. Can you describe the implications for rights to privacy and free expression?It is not just about data collection, but how  that data is trained, which then informs how it is applied. For example, what are the design choices being made by the algorithm’s designers? If you’re looking to assess certain types of speech on social media—and governments around the world are increasingly using sentiment analysis tools to ascertain the public mood—you have to tell the computer to look for something. Is that something a particular name, gender, race, or religion? The wide application of this technique creates a chilling effect on speech: if you know you are being watched, you alter your behavior accordingly.Second, data collection is opaque to individuals. At the time of data collection, there is inequity of information between people who are data subjects and people who are processing that data. To give you an example, new AI applications claim to be able to predict your mood based on the way you type. The user has no control over the application of this technology despite its profound impact on their privacy: not only is data being collected and assumed about users, it’s being used to profile them. So your mood can become part of your insurance assessment, or your credit scoring assessment, or other important metrics. The problem isn’t just data collection; it’s also profiling. The implications for privacy and freedom of expression here are profound. What’s worse, there is very little opportunity to appeal because users may not even know it is happening.Thinking about this as a model, the first choice is the design choice, then comes the data collection, and after that the statistical models based on that data and the chosen design. Do the designers consider human implications before the model is applied? Often, this decision-making process is completely opaque and asymmetric. There are few opportunities to detect or appeal it. So there’s a need for greater transparency around those kinds of applications?When people talk about transparency and AI, they often focus on the transparency of the model and the transparency of the algorithm, but I’m also interested in transparency of application. When it comes to things like speech, if we’re talking about Facebook and the newsfeed, for example, how do I know what I’m not seeing?I use the terms opacity not only to refer to the data collection, profiling, statistical analysis, and assumptions made about individuals, but also to a more basic question: when is AI being used and when are these statistical inferences being applied to me?  If I’m using Facebook one day and I apply for a loan the next, is there any explanation for whether or how my data from yesterday becomes a deciding factor in my fate today? Beyond this, pushing for greater transparency is important, but not always desirable or even possible. Pushing for intelligibility, scrutability, and explainability helps us get closer to accountability.Pushing for greater transparency is important, but not always desirable or even possible. Pushing for intelligibility, scrutability, and explainability helps us get closer to accountability.The report highlights the risk that the private sector will develop AI-driven censorship tools in response to public pressure to police hate speech and online extremism; however, Chinese state-affiliated companies are already poised to market AI-enhanced mass surveillance and censorship around the world. How can or should civil society respond to this challenge?This is very much in line with the culture of thinking about development of AI as a race. There is a great amount of fear that new AI systems will be developed and applied with terrible consequences in one place and then spread to other places as other governments or companies feel pressure to apply it in the same way.Some instances of this are inevitable. We see an emerging trend of using AI to curb hate speech and fix misinformation, but I also think it is more productive to step back and ask if the application of technology was a good one in the first place. In the debate over AI’s impact on democracy, there is a tendency to take the effectiveness and application of AI techniques as a given, but we should be asking simpler questions: should a given technique be applied? Is it even effective? AI models are often so imperfect that they can be detrimental not only to human rights, but to their developers’ objectives. And AI can be used for great things and for terrible things depending on the design choices developers make and the data they use.More so than worrying about the development of AI technology, civil society should work to minimize applications of AI that are detrimental to human rights and civil liberties. One way of doing this is through standard-setting organizations like the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE), which developed the Wi-Fi standard, among others. Another is by ensuring that the legal and policy environment within which AI systems function have adequate safeguards. Data privacy is an area of increasing concern, with many in democracies calling for a consumer right to opt out of data collection. In the future, how conceivable will it be to opt out of AI’s growing role in human life?The unfortunate truth is that we have very little say in how our data is used currently, and that must change. Every time I do a Google search, I have no idea how many people are collecting that data. Every time I see a Facebook widget on a website, I have no idea what information it is collecting about me. Even if I’m not a Facebook user, Facebook can create a shadow profile of me. This goes back to the asymmetry problem: there’s no way of appealing the use of this data until it’s too late. We do have the European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation, which came into force in May 2018 and which has an higher standards for knowledge of, and consent to data collection, but I’m not sure what anyone can do once your data is already in any particular system or is already publicly available and ready to be harvested.So, unfortunately, I doubt it will be possible to “opt-out” in the future, unless we see radical shifts across stakeholder groups. There isn’t much you can do, for example, when your anonymity in a public space is completely broken because facial recognition software can identify you, access publicly available data on you, and then use that data to infer sensitive information about you.There are now many jurisdictions that distinguish between types of data, especially personal data. In India, for example, there is a provision in the current Information Technology Act that talks about sensitive personal data and what you can do in the case that sensitive personal data is leaked or hacked; but AI challenges such safeguards. It can take publicly available data and use it to extract more sensitive data about you, and that process is beyond your control.Because technology moves much quicker than law and is much more inscrutable, we need to figure out a way to make technology respect human rights by design. Otherwise, society is never going to keep up with it through legal rulings or monetary fines.Because technology moves much quicker than law and is much more inscrutable, we need to figure out a way to make technology respect human rights by design. Otherwise, society is never going to keep up with it through legal rulings or monetary fines.Has civil society been succeeding in framing the debate and setting priorities in the international arena? Why or why not?A big barrier to civil society engagement in this area has been that the effects are to a large extent unknown. In meetings, whether with the government, the private sector, or other civil society organizations, one of the first problems that comes up is “we don’t have enough evidence.” When you don’t have enough evidence, you don’t know what you’re up against. So for example, people can be worried about the use of AI in Malaysia, but unless you have evidence of exactly how it’s been applied, there’s not much you can do about it. We don’t have much of that information.In terms of civil society’s role, I think the emerging focus on multistakeholder engagement is really important. Many key civil society organizations are in those spaces, which is fantastic. It’s critical for civil society and companies to work together as peers, not as two opposite sides of a table which don’t trust one another. Civil society has been successful in slowly getting a foot in the door into key spaces. But there is also huge scope for improvement in figuring out what kind of engagement is useful. Do we need to talk about the implications of these technologies? Do we need to become technical standard-setting bodies? Do we need to be at policy development processes? Perhaps all of the above. These are all things that, as a stakeholder group, civil society needs to decide and organize around.In terms of civil society’s role, I think the emerging focus on multistakeholder engagement is really important. Many key civil society organizations are in those spaces, which is fantastic. It’s critical for civil society and companies to work together as peers, not as two opposite sides of a table which don’t trust one another.FOR MORE FROM NED’S INTERNATIONAL FORUM ON THIS TOPIC, SEE:“’Dataveillance’ in Xi Jinping’s ‘Brave New China,’” a Power 3.0 blog post by Xiao Qiang.Dean Jackson’s February 2018 Q&A with Dipayan Ghosh on the “Commercial Drivers of Precision Propaganda.”“Hybrid Repression Online and Offline in China: Foretelling the Human Rights Struggle To Come,” A Power 3.0 blog post by Steven Feldstein.Dean Jackson’s February Q&A with Maria Ressa on “Digital Disinformation and Philippine Democracy in the Balance.”Dean Jackson’s November 2017 Q&A with Jonathon Morgan on “Tracking Digital Disinformation.”Dean Jackson’s July 2017 Q&A with Phil Howard on “Computational Propaganda’s Challenge to Democracy.”“Can Democracy Survive the Internet?” an April 2017 Journal of Democracy article by Nathaniel Persily.  NED will honor defenders of human and religious rights in China.In an interview with Efecto Naim, NED Vice President...Liberia’s continued lack of transparency poses a...The authors of a new report produced by the International...Despite the abolition of untouchability and the enactment of special laws to...
#NED Remembers Princeton Lyman#August 28, 2018#The National Endowment for Democracy (NED) learned with great sadness that Ambassador Princeton Lyman, a long-time member of NED’s Board of Directors, passed away on August 24th.  Lyman had served on the Endowment’s Board for 9 years, ending in June 2017.  One of the United States’ most accomplished diplomats, who most notably served as U.S. Ambassador to South Africa during the transition from apartheid to democracy, Lyman was NED’s Board specialist for Africa.  He was generous to a fault with his time and expertise helping to develop and oversee the Endowment’s grant making on the continent.“Everyone at NED feels privileged to have been able to know and work with Princeton during his nine years of service on the board,” said NED President Carl Gershman.  “He was an incomparably informed and devoted board specialist on Africa. More than that, he was a mentor to the young people on the NED staff, a gifted teacher, and an inspiring motivator.  He didn’t just support NED’s work. He helped shape lives. In so doing, he enriched the NED’s institutional life and moral culture, and for that, we will be forever grateful to Princeton. May his memory be a blessing.”The National Endowment for Democracy Board and staff extend our deepest sympathy and sincere condolences to the Lyman family.Watch Princeton Lyman’s remarks in our Board Reflections video.
#NED Mourns the Loss of Senator John McCain#August 26, 2018#The Board of Directors and staff of the National Endowment for Democracy were deeply saddened to learn of the death of Senator John McCain, who, among his many great contributions to American public life, served as Chairman of the NED’s close partner, the International Republican Institute (IRI) from 1993-2018.“John McCain was one of the great freedom fighters of all time,” said NED President Carl Gershman. “He was a champion of democracy wherever it was being challenged and needed his support.  His powerful voice gave hope to dissidents and political prisoners everywhere and gave them confidence that they were not alone. As a result, his death is mourned by democrats in Russia and Ukraine, in China and Burma, in Cuba and Venezuela, and in Egypt, Iran, Zimbabwe, and so many other countries.    He was also a great and decades-long friend of the NED, chairing the International Republican Institute for more than a quarter of a century and leading the effort to build support in the U.S. Congress for NED’s mission and work. He was a proud American, and he made countless others proud to be American.   As we mourn his death, we pledge to continue the fight for freedom to which he devoted his life.”The entire NED family extends its sincere condolences and deepest sympathy to the McCain family, staff, and to our colleagues at IRI.
#“How Democracies Can Fight Authoritarian Sharp Power”#August 17, 2018#For too long, observers in democracies interpreted authoritarian influence through an outdated lens, even as autocratic regimes like China and Russia embedded themselves in democratic societies. Writing for Foreign Affairs, Christopher Walker, Shanthi Kalathil, and Jessica Ludwig evaluate the increasing role of civil society in the fight against authoritarian influence. Even as countries like Australia implement new legislation to take meaningful action against foreign interference, it is clear that democracies cannot rely solely on governmental measures to address the complex challenges presented by authoritarian sharp power. Leaders of important public institutions—publishers, university administrators, media executives—have a responsibility to uphold their commitment to democratic values and free expression by remaining vigilant against censorship or manipulation by external authoritarian forces.Sharp power is so effective because institutions in democratic settings are open to the outside world and thus vulnerable to foreign manipulation. Policymakers within democracies need to grapple with the challenge of repelling outside influence while upholding essential democratic values. Image Credit: ImageFlow/Shutterstock In 2014, NED mourned the loss of Sardar Ahmad, a widely respected Afghan journalist...The July 2018 issue features an eight-article cluster...The April 2017 issue features a series of articles...The Forum 2000 Foundation pursues the legacy of Václav...Apr 16, 2014Democracy Ideas: Lilia Shevtsova, "Russia...NED will honor defenders of human and religious rights in China.
#Issue Brief: The ‘Demand Side’ of the Disinformation Crisis#August 2, 2018#TWEET | SHARE | PDFUntil recently, most efforts to understand disinformation’s challenge to political and media freedom have focused on the supply of content intended to mislead people and undermine political opposition. Consequently, most efforts to respond to the challenge have focused on exposing sources of disinformation, debunking its narratives, and detailing its distribution.These efforts are key components of a resilient information space. However, they often fail to appreciate the market logic of disinformation, in which supply meets audience demand for certain types of content. This ‘demand side’ of the disinformation challenge complicates the prevailing model of responses based largely on verification and debunking.Supply-side analyses of disinformation typically begin with understanding the dissemination of false, misleading, divisive, or inflammatory content. This content reaches audiences incidentally as it moves through the media ecosystem. It is sometimes amplified by manipulation of mainstream media sources or by journalistic mistakes. Misled or confused, the audience then doubts accounts from authoritative sources. During moments of crisis or during rapidly unfolding events, users may accidentally share disinformation out of a desire to help or, in a moment of fear or anger, because they do not realize they have been misled.These assumptions concerning the spread of disinformation may hold true for many people much of the time. However, some subset of the population consistently consumes and shares disinformation. These individuals may be invested in the narratives supported by disinformation campaigns. Their worldview or sense of self may also lead them to believe certain sources or stories over others. In some instances, their reliance on the new, hyper-digitized, freewheeling information environment may lead them down paths of paranoia and radicalization that were more difficult to discover and access before the internet’s advent. Such factors make up the ‘demand side’ of the disinformation challenge. Why do people consume and share misleading, incendiary content? The answer depends heavily on the individual. Different people have different understandings of the same content, and varying reasons for consuming and sharing it.Still, observed patterns in human cognition point to reasons an individual might be susceptible to disinformation and seek it out. Research into confirmation bias—also called motivated reasoning—demonstrates that individuals often betray an unconscious preference for information consistent with preexisting beliefs. This preference is a feature, not a bug, of human cognition: from an evolutionary standpoint it is often a more efficient way to forge social consensus and determine a course of action.By manipulating preexisting points of division and distrust within their target audience, disinformation campaigns can take advantage of confirmation bias to undermine social trust, discredit authoritative sources of information, peddle falsehoods, and render truth more difficult to discern.News consumers who interact with disinformation as part of a motivated reasoning process are sometimes described as living in a “post-fact” world. Others warn of “truth decay,” marked by declining social agreement on the value of factual information over opinion. As a sign of growing public concern, the Oxford Dictionaries in 2016 named “post-truth” its international word of the year, defining it as, “relating to or denoting circumstances in which objective facts are less influential in shaping public opinion than appeals to emotion and personal belief.” (The German Language Society, or Gesellschaft der Deutschen Sprache, reached a similar decision.) Recent analysis details how a growing number of political movements around the world have exploited diminishing respect for facts and expertise for political gain.This poses challenges for responses to disinformation based on fact-checking or debunking, and may diminish the effectiveness of media literacy and education as blanket solutions. Highly educated consumers may become more powerful motivated reasoners, better able to justify their preexisting convictions and adhere to an ideological or partisan line.By manipulating preexisting points of division and distrust within their target audience, disinformation campaigns can take advantage of confirmation bias to undermine social trust, discredit authoritative sources of information, peddle falsehoods, and render truth more difficult to discern.To understand the role of disinformation in today’s media ecosystem, analysts must take into account individuals’ motivation for newsgathering. Why do audiences choose to consume the content they do? First, it is to obtain accurate information about the world around them, which they use to make decisions and inform their opinions. Yet this is not the only, or even the most common, factor.Users can and often do seek out and share misleading content for emotional or ideological validation. According to one study, “defense-motivated” consumption, guided by the desire to validate one’s worldview, may in fact be the default for media consumption. Participants in the study were no more likely to consume balanced information when rewarded for accuracy than when rewarded for justifying their preexisting opinions. This suggests an inability to distinguish between attitude-consistent content and accurate information.Other consumers may be motivated by the desire to make an impression on others.  This especially applies to the type of content social media users share. A surprising number of users have admitted to sharing information they know or believe to be untrue. While these users reported a variety of reasons (including humor), the desire to signal one’s political stances to others is one potential explanation.This body of research suggests that media consumer identity, the need for validation, and emotional arousal are key components of the disinformation crisis, and are easily manipulated. They help explain disinformation’s rapid spread through social networks: rumors, hoaxes, and incendiary content generally spread more quickly than journalists and fact-checkers are able to react. Disinformation’s reach relies on media consumers’ predilection to share content that generates fear, anger, or disgust. In the words of one report, “angry messages are more persuasive to angry audiences.” In some cases, disinformation is amplified by automated ‘bot’ accounts, although one recent study contends that the spread of misleading content is more often attributable to humans, who do not need robotic assistance to share information that is not factual or authenticated.Media consumer identity, the need for validation, and emotional arousal are key components of the disinformation crisis, and are easily manipulated.Many explanations for disinformation’s increasing threat to democracy and public discourse refer to the transformational power of the internet and social media. There are multiple explanations for the role of social media and major internet platforms as drivers of vulnerability to disinformation, none of which are mutually exclusive.Many observers point to internet platforms’ control over news distribution as a key factor in this process. As digital advertising eclipsed other sources of newspaper revenue, Facebook and Google—which earn revenue by algorithmically targeting ads to users—became major sources of readership for news outlets, while simultaneously capturing the majority of all online advertising revenue. The result has been a precipitous decline in revenue for most news organizations, leaving the media sector vulnerable to capture and the quality of public discourse diminished.Another factor is the internet platforms’ assumption—consciously or not—of the news media’s gatekeeping role, through which they influenced which stories came to public attention. While the emergence of social media has allowed new, diverse voices a more prominent role in the public square, it has also handed a tremendous amount of influence to the proprietary, non-transparent algorithms of the major internet platforms. Because these algorithms are designed to generate ad revenue, they privilege content based on factors other than value to the public sphere. The larger these algorithms’ role in selectively delivering news, the more privileged “click-worthy” content becomes—in many cases regardless of veracity or trustworthiness. This creates a perfect storm for disinformation, which is highly engaging by design.A third argument positing a connection between social media and disinformation focuses on “selective exposure”—the ability of users to sort themselves into homogenous ‘echo chambers’ or ‘filter bubbles’ devoid of content contradicting their preexisting views. Social media platforms do not merely enable users to pursue selective exposure; their revenue model is built on audience hyper-segmentation, allowing for targeted advertising and algorithmically driven selective exposure by default. The end result is often said to be increased consumption of hyper-partisan or ideologically biased media, facilitating polarization, diminishing political dialogue, and increasing vulnerability to politically motivated disinformation. Yet evidence from recent research suggests a complicated relationship between social media, selective exposure, and disinformation. While past studies have blamed internet-driven selective exposure for increasing political polarization, more recent studies cast doubt on the notion that social media is a primary driver of polarization. Attempts to explore the relationship between internet use and polarization must also account for the role of users’ offline media consumption, the signals sent by political leaders, and other offline societal variables.Complicating matters further, the research on echo chambers is also contradictory. While some studies have identified social media echo chambers around specific issues and events, others suggests that most users’ online media diets are diverse and largely centrist. The overall literature also suggests that partisan news consumers are driven more by affinity for likeminded content than by avoidance of opposing views.Search engines and their algorithms also play a role on the ‘demand’ side. While some users assume these elements of the modern information space are neutral conveyors of unbiased information, they are not. For instance, one study of ideological partisans found its subjects unaware of the manner in which Google search results are returned: they assumed that the topmost results represented a cross-section of the most relevant, credible news sources and failed to consider the impact of Google’s search algorithm on their results. The same study found that using different—sometimes only slightly different—phrasing in searches about controversial issues led Google to surface results from radically different viewpoints. This confirms what other research has found: that the need for greater public understanding of the role of algorithms in content curation is acute, as is the need for greater algorithmic transparency on the part of internet platforms.A more nuanced model of the relationship between the internet and polarization is emerging. It suggests that while most individuals consume little news media and encounter content from a range of viewpoints online, a subset of heavy media consumers frequently engages with hyper-partisan content and is disproportionately active in online discussions. Like most users, they seem primarily motivated by attraction to likeminded content, not avoidance of contrasting viewpoints. These voracious, outspoken, motivated media consumers may enjoy significant influence over the views of their less politically engaged peers, helping spread ideologically charged narratives and drive polarization. In this way, the internet—which has diminished the power of legacy media gatekeepers and further empowered peer networks to mediate the spread of information—may still play a role in priming the information space for hoax, rumor, and disinformation.The overall literature suggests that partisan news consumers are driven more by affinity for likeminded content than by avoidance of opposing views.If media consumer demand is helping propel the disinformation crisis, this suggests the need for more nuanced countermeasures than are currently being implemented. In the future, effective solutions may appear less comprehensive, but rather iterative, adaptive, and targeted at the motivations of specific groups of media users. Better understanding of disinformation’s demand side should help refine responses to counter it. Brief prepared by Dean Jackson, International Forum for Democratic Studies. “Distinguishing Disinformation from Propaganda, ‘Fake News,’ and Misinformation” and “How Disinformation Impacts Politics and Publics,” two previous International Forum issue briefs in this series.“The Lie Is Not the Story: Practicing Journalism In the Disinformation Age,” and “The Disinformation Crisis and the Erosion of Truth,” two Power 3.0 blog posts by Dean Jackson.Dean Jackson’s February 2018 Q&A with Maria Ressa on “Digital Disinformation and Philippine Democracy in the Balance.”“Fighting Fiction: Countering Disinformation Through Election Monitoring,” a Power 3.0 blog post by Julia Brothers.“Can Democracy Survive the Internet?” an April 2017 Journal of Democracy article by Nathaniel Persily.“The Authoritarian Capture of Social Media,” by Peter Kreko for the Power 3.0 blog. Image Credit: Everett Collection/Shutterstock Dean Jackson of the International Forum for Democratic Studies spoke with Vidushi...The January 2019 edition of the Forum newsletter features...The International Forum for Democratic Studies outlines...As we celebrated World Press Freedom Day, the Center...The International Forum for Democratic Studies' October 2018 "quick hits" newsletter...
#Democracy Research News July 2018#July 23, 2018#“Explaining Eastern Europe” – The July issue of the Journal of Democracy features a cluster of articles on “Explaining Eastern Europe.” The cluster includes four authors affiliated with NDRI member institutes:In tandem with the Journal of Democracy cluster on Central and Eastern Europe, the International Forum for Democratic Studies (US) asked five leading experts for their views on “What is the Root Cause of Rising Illiberalism in Central and Eastern Europe?”The V-Dem Institute (Sweden) has issued a call for Country Experts for its January 2019 dataset update. During these updates, most Country Experts work on one country, observed over the past several decades, and on one or two clusters of questions, e.g.: (1) elections and political parties, (2) the executive, the legislature and deliberation, (3) judiciary, civil liberty and sovereignty, and (4) civil society, media freedom and political equality. The coding procedure is entirely web-based. The default language for the online surveys is English but the survey also available in French, Spanish, Portuguese, Arabic and Russian. The Institute is searching for a Country Coordinator on Brunei.  Democracy is in decline for one third of the world, according to the V-Dem Institute’s Annual Democracy Report 2018: “Democracy for All?”. The study revealed that in 2017 democratic qualities were in decline in 24 countries across the world, including in some of the most populous, such as the US and India.The V-Dem Institute also published a number of new working papers: “What Makes Experts Reliable?;” “How to Make Causal Inferences with Time-Series Cross-Sectional Data under Selection on Observables;” “Self-Censorship in Authoritarian States: Response Bias in Measures of Popular Support in China;” and “Introducing the Historical Varieties of Democracy Dataset: Political Institutions in the Long 19th Century.”The International Forum for Democratic Studies’ Power 3.0 blog recently published posts on “From Central Africa to Australia: Following the Kleptocrats’ Money;” “Countering Transnational Kleptocracy: How Democracies Can Lead the Way;” and “The 16+1 Initiative: China’s Divisive Equation for Central and Eastern Europe.”The International Forum also published an issue brief on “How Disinformation Impacts Politics and Publics,” which examines how disinformation is used and consumed, proactive and reactive disinformation strategies in different country contexts, and the scale of the disinformation crisis. Afrobarometer’s current round of surveys (to be completed by mid-2018) explores migration intentions and drivers in 35 African countries. Initial data from nine countries – Ghana, Benin, Côte d’Ivoire, Kenya, Malawi, Uganda, Mali, Zambia, and Zimbabwe – show that on average, one-third of respondents have considered emigrating, including 16% who have given it “a lot” of thought.In Nigeria, Afrobarometer’s 2017 survey indicates that citizens praise government and military efforts to fight violent extremism but report relatively high levels of fear and personal experience of such violence. The survey also finds that a majority of citizens see economic conditions as bad and the country as going in the wrong direction – although an overwhelming majority are optimistic that the economy will be better in a year’s time.Afrobarometer’s 2014/2015 surveys conducted across 36 African countries show that a little more than half (54%) of the population express support for an unfettered media; and public attitudes show increasing support for multiparty democracy, but both ruling and opposition parties still struggle to gain popular trust.In São Tomé and Príncipe, Afrobarometer’s  2015 survey data shows that popular trust in state institutions is low while perceptions of corruption are widespread. These findings challenge São Tomeans working to reduce corruption and strengthen public trust in their democratic institutions.The Center for Democracy and Development West Africa (Nigeria) published the report “Decentralisation, Governance and Corruption at the Local Level, Evidences from Nigeria,” which examines the impact of decentralization on reducing corruption and increasing accountability.The Centre for Development and Enterprise (South Africa) recently released two short reports on the land reform challenge in South Africa to encourage informed engagement with the topic. “Business and Land Reform” summarizes CDE’s previous recommendations on the land reform issue, and “The Looming Land Restitution Crisis” gives an overview of the key issues, the reasons restitution has been slow, and the implications of this for economic growth.A working paper for Effective States and Inclusive Development, authored by researchers at the  Ghana Center for Democratic Development  (CDD-Ghana) emphasizes the extent to which teacher accountability in Ghana’s education sector is shaped by the dynamics of the country’s political settlement, from the national level through districts to schools themselves. A key finding across the two districts studied was that within Ghana’s competitive clientelist settlement, which tends to generate a high degree of policy incoherence and politicization within the education sector, the drivers of improved performance and accountability flow less from the national to the local, but instead need to be (re)-generated at the level of districts and schools.CDD-Ghana and the NorGlobal Network hosted the Breaking Backlash Against Democracy (Breaking BAD) workshop, which provided a platform for stakeholders to discuss the manifestations and dimensions of democratic backlash in Africa with regard to what rights are being restricted, when and how these restrictions take place, as well as the response strategies adopted by both domestic and international actors. The Centre for Strategic and International Studies (Indonesia) published “Security Sector Governance and the Role of Oversight – The Case of Indonesia,” in which author Iis Gindarash examines how parliament, independent oversign bodies, civil society, and think tanks are hindered in their ability in providing oversight of Indonesia’s security sector governance.The International Forum for Democratic Studies’ Power 3.0 blog recently published a post on “How Beijing Is Reshaping the Infrastructure of Development” that examines how Beijing has emerged as an alternative source of infrastructure financing and become an institutional player through its Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB) and New Development Bank (NDB or, as it is often called, the BRICS bank).The Jinnah Institute (Pakistan) published a new Policy Brief on “Terrorism in the Age of New Media” that examines the use of new media tools by modern violent extremist groups to build their narrative and develop self-sustaining “online” networks that allow them to increasingly impact the global information environment and maintain adaptive terrorist networks.A systematic and continuous review of the pre-poll electoral process in Pakistan by the Pakistan Institute of Legislative Development and Transparency (PILDAT), spanning over a period of a year starting from April 2017 up to March 2018, indicates that the pre-poll process has, so far, been Unfair overall. The PILDAT Pre-Election Assessment Report on a scale of 100.  with a Score Card on Pre-Poll Fairness Perception is based on an 11-point Pre-poll Fairness Framework and has received an overall score of 51.5%. The Association for International Affairs (Czech Republic) recently launched Chinfluence, an international project mapping Chinese political and economic influence in the Czech Republic, Hungary, and Slovakia.The Center for Euro-Atlantic Studies (Serbia) released a new report, “West Side Story,” that offers a proposal to correct the administrative line between Serbia and Kosovo and the impact it will have on reaching a comprehensive agreement on the normalization of relations between the two territories.Boris Begovic, senior fellow and former executive director of the Center for Liberal-Democratic Studies (Serbia) recently published “Must Orthodoxy be a Barrier to Liberal Democracy? The Case of Serbia 1903 – 1914” in Public Orthodoxy.Sinopsis, a joint project of AcaMedia (Czech Republic) and the Institute of East Asian Studies at Charles University in Prague published “Sinopsis & Jichang Lulu: UN with Chinese Characteristics,” an analysis of the Chinese Communist Party’s elite capture and “discourse management” on a global scale, aimed at redefining “human rights” and getting China’s strategic initiatives institutionally endorsed by an international body.The V-Dem Institute will hold a research workshop on “Democracy in Reverse: Patterns of Autocratization in Eastern Europe and Eurasia” on Friday, October 19, 2018, at the University of Tartu, Estonia. The workshop is designed to examine the more visible pathways of autocratization in areas such as Central Asia, Russia, or Belarus. CADAL (Argentina) and Transparencia Electoral published Así se vota en Cuba, by political scientist Leandro Querido. The book offers a forensic analysis of the Cuban electoral system under the heat of the historic electoral process of 2017/2018.CADAL also published “The Democracy World Cup,” which adhered to the initiative started by the Bertelsmann Foundation that classifies each of the 32 countries taking part in the 2018 World Cup for its elections (playmaking), freedom of expression (fan culture), protection of civil rights (defense), social inclusion (team spirit) and corruption prevention (fair play), offering it in Spanish. CADAL also translated into Spanish the Global Trends and the regional chapters of the 2018 Bertelsmann Transformation Index.Instituto Atuação (Brazil) launched the Local Democracy Index, which measures and diagnoses the quality of democracy at the municipal level in Brazil.The International Forum for Democratic Studies (US) hosted an event on “The End of Peru’s Success Story?” with political scientist Alberto Vergara, who also offered his thoughts on “Politics, Parties, and the Prospects for Democracy in Peru.” The International Forum also hosted an event with Argentine journalist and civil society leader Maria Baron on “The Difficult Road to Transparency in Latin America.” Democracy Research News is the electronic newsletter of the Network of Democracy Research Institutes (NDRI), a membership association of institutions that conduct and publish research on democracy and democratic development. It is one of several functional networks associated with the World Movement for Democracy. To submit comments or to inquire about joining the Network, please write to Melissa Aten at melissaa@ned.org.  The April 2018 edition of the Forum newsletter explores the latest issue of...The September 2018 edition of the Forum newsletter...Michael Coppedge is professor of political science...The March 2019 edition of the Forum newsletter features...Zora Bútorová is a resident scholar of the Institute...The April 2018 edition of Democracy Research News welcomes nine new members...
#Updates from the International Forum for Democratic Studies#July 23, 2018#The July 2018 Journal of Democracy features an eight-article cluster on rising illiberalism in Central and Eastern Europe, an essay on authoritarian sharp power, and more.The International Forum asks five leading experts: What is the Root Cause of Rising Illiberalism in Central and Eastern Europe?Forum Q&A: Alex Magaisa on Zimbabwe’s Upcoming 2018 Elections – Dr. Magaisa discusses new political dynamics and what they mean for the future of Zimbabwe in the context of the July 2018 elections. Holly Dranginis and Debra LaPrevotte discuss how international law enforcement and investigative organizations can partner with local whistleblowers and eyewitnesses to trace stolen assets in “From Central Africa to Australia: Following the Kleptocrats’ Money.”In “Countering Transnational Kleptocracy: How Democracies Can Lead the Way,” Nate Sibley outlines a roadmap for democracies to take-on authoritarian, kleptocratic regimes.Martin Hala explains China’s strategic objectives in the international arena in “The 16+1 Initiative: China’s Divisive Equation for Central and Eastern Europe.” Drawing lessons from successful cases, Argentine journalist and civil society leader Maria Baron offers observations on strategies for forging ahead on “The Difficult Road to Transparency in Latin America.”During “Elections in Zimbabwe: Autocracy and Stasis, or Democracy and Change?” Dr. Alex Magaisa assesses preparations for the approaching elections in Zimbabwe and discusses the prospects for democratization, including possible post-election scenarios and the roles of the military and the international community.Activist Passy Mubalama examines how the current political crisis affects women’s rights in the DRC, and why the participation of women in politics and security is vital for the prospects of bringing peace and democracy to the country in “Why Women’s Political Participation Matters in the Congo.”Pakistani journalist Nadeem F. Paracha explores the impact that viral hoaxes, rumors, and other forms of manipulated information can have through social media during “Has Freedom of Expression Become a Self-Parody? Examples from Pakistan’s Social Media”Democracies can cut off the life-blood of authoritarian regimes and criminal organizations by tackling rampant money laundering in the global financial system.-Nate Sibley, Countering Transnational Kleptocracy: How Democracies Can Lead the Way The September 2018 edition of the Forum newsletter features new content, event...Shanthi Kalathil delves into China's unprecedented...The International Forum for Democratic Studies atThe...Testimony before the U.S. House Foreign Affairs Committee,...The January 2019 edition of the Forum newsletter features...Alexander Cooley examines how business networks, elite bank accounts, overseas...
#Journal of Democracy July 2018 Issue: Explaining Eastern Europe#July 19, 2018#What are the causes of East Central Europe’s growing illiberalism, and can the region’s democratic backsliding be halted? How are states such as Russia and China using “sharp power” to manipulate politics in democracies? What does the rise of capitalist authoritarianism mean for the global prospects of democracy?In the July 2018 issue of the Journal of Democracy, a cluster of eight articles on East Central Europe explores the swell of populist and illiberal currents across six countries, and analyzes the broader factors behind the dramatic political shifts of recent years:What is “sharp power”?In an era of globalization coupled with authoritarian resurgence, the institutions of a growing number of democracies are straining to comprehend and to deal with the projection of authoritarian influence through more diverse channels than ever before. In the July 2018 issue, Christopher Walker defines the pervasive threat of “sharp power,” a term coined by the NED’s International Forum for Democratic Studies to identify authoritarian influence efforts that seek to pierce, penetrate, and perforate the political and information environments of targeted countries.In addition, in the July 2018 issue: For the complete Table of Contents, visit www.journalofdemocracy.org. 2011 Democracy AwardRemarks of Congressman Greg MeeksMelissa Aten of the International Forum for Democratic...Authors of the report, "Sharp Power": Rising Authoritarian...Steven Levitsky is Harvard College Professor and Professor...Libel Tourism: Silencing the Press Through Transnational...The October 2017 issue features six essays on Russia's autocracy, a debate on...
#Scam impersonates NED to defraud victims with fake grants#July 18, 2018#The National Endowment for Democracy, a private, nonprofit organization dedicated to the growth and strengthening of democratic institutions around the world, recently became aware of an ongoing scam being perpetrated through Facebook, texting, and other mediums. The scam involves someone claiming to be a National Endowment for Humanities (NEH) or National Endowment for Democracy (NED) employee contacting victims through Facebook Messenger or a text telling you that you are on a “winners list” and instructing you to send payment before they will send you the winnings. Please be advised that this is a scam.The NED does not make grants to individuals. Furthermore, NED and its employees will never ask you to send money, wire money, or add money to a prepaid debit card as a condition for receiving an award or grant. NED does not use Facebook or text to contact individuals concerning grant awards.If someone purporting to be a NED employee has contacted you through Facebook about an award, please report the incident to Facebook so that it can remove the fraudulent account. You can report it to the Federal Trade Commission at https://www.ftccomplaintassistant.gov, and the Federal Bureau of Investigation at http://www.ic3.gov.Please take the necessary precautions to protect yourself.Resources:NED Facebook Page – This is the official NED Facebook page, which has been verified by Facebook.How to Recognize a Government Imposter – https://www.consumer.ftc.gov/articles/0048-government-imposter-scams 
#The Big Question: What Is the Root Cause of Rising Illiberalism in Central and Eastern Europe?#July 16, 2018#TWEET | SHARE | PDFCentral and Eastern Europe, as scrutinized in a cluster of articles in the July 2018 issue of the Journal of Democracy, has undergone a period of political turbulence in countries like Poland and Hungary. In these and other places, a polarized political landscape and fragmented media sector have helped provide fertile ground for the spread of non-democratic ideas. Foreign authoritarian powers, such as Russia and China, have also seized on this moment to spread disinformation and advance their own interests. Yet, as the recent protests in Poland and Slovakia demonstrate, democratic civil society remains willing to push back against illiberalism in the region.The International Forum for Democratic Studies asked five leading experts for their views on the root cause of rising illiberalism in Central and Eastern Europe. (Their answers have been edited for length and clarity, and do not necessarily reflect the views of the National Endowment for Democracy.)The region’s illiberal turn cannot be grasped apart from the political expectation of “normality” created by the 1989 revolution and the politics of imitation that it legitimized.-Ivan Krastev, Centre for Liberal StrategiesIvan Krastev is chairman of the Centre for Liberal Strategies in Sofia, a permanent fellow at the Institute for Human Sciences in Vienna, and a New York Times contributing writer. Krastev is a founding board member of the European Council on Foreign Relations, and a member of the Board of Trustees of The International Crisis Group. His latest books in English are After Europe (2017), Democracy Disrupted: The Global Politics of Protest (2014), and In Mistrust We Trust: Can Democracy Survive When We Don’t Trust Our Leaders? (2013). Krastev’s article “Explaining Eastern Europe: Imitation and Its Discontents,” co-written with Stephen Holmes, appears in the July 2018 issue of the Journal of Democracy.To understand the origins of today’s Central and East European illiberal revolution, we should look neither to ideology nor to economics, but to imitation. The region’s illiberal turn cannot be grasped apart from the political expectation of “normality” created by the 1989 revolution and the politics of imitation that it legitimized. After the Berlin Wall fell, Europe was no longer divided between communists and democrats. It was instead divided between imitators and the imitated. East-West relations morphed from a Cold War standoff between two hostile systems into a moral hierarchy within a single liberal, Eastern system. While the mimics looked up to their models, the models looked down on their mimics. It is not entirely mysterious, therefore, why the “imitation of the West” voluntarily chosen by East Europeans three decades ago eventually resulted in a political backlash. What makes imitation so irksome is not only the implicit assumption that the mimic is somehow inferior to the model. It also entails the assumption that Central and Eastern Europe’s copycat nations accept the West’s right to evaluate their success or failure at living up to Western standards. In this sense, imitation comes to feel like a loss of sovereignty.[i]The failure of mainstream political parties is one clear and proximate cause of current illiberalism. Voters remain committed to democracy—but the behavior of politicians often ranges from cynical to corrupt.-Anna Grzymala-Busse, Stanford UniversityAnna Grzymala-Busse is Michelle and Kevin Douglas Professor of International Studies and a senior fellow at the Freeman Spogli Institute for International Studies at Stanford University, where her research interests include political parties, state development and transformation, informal political institutions, religion and politics, and post-communist politics. She is the author of  Nations Under God (2015), Rebuilding Leviathan (2007), and Redeeming the Communist Past (2002). Follow her on Twitter @AnnaGBusse.The failure of mainstream political parties is one clear and proximate cause of current illiberalism. Voters remain committed to democracy—but the behavior of politicians often ranges from cynical to corrupt. Mainstream, centrist parties failed their electorates in two ways: first, they had earlier minimized public debate over critical issues such as market reforms or EU accession. These were presented to the public as unalloyed goods, with enormous elite consensus behind them. The result was that populist and extremist parties were the main (and often only) critics. The second, more immediate, failure was the lack of integrity and the never-ending legal and ethical controversies: the MSzP lying over the state of Hungarian public finances in 2006, the PO taping scandals (and sweetheart deals of previous administrations) in Poland, or the “tunneling” (fraudulent asset transfer) and privatization disasters in the Czech Republic in the 1990s are just a few examples. The result? An electorate eager for responsive and accountable governing political parties, one that turned to less orthodox parties who criticized the mainstream elites as corrupt, claimed to represent the common good, and promised to pursue real change. And implement change they did. With considerable parliamentary majorities, Fidesz in Hungary and PiS in Poland, among others, pursued a relentless set of policies designed to bring state institutions back under “popular” control—resulting in the current erosion of the rule of law, an end to judicial autonomy, attacks on the media and on civil society, and the division of society into party loyalists and their treasonous opposition.Global changes have re-amplified the authoritarian characteristics of Central and East European political culture, especially the prevalence of “hierarchy values” over the values of egalitarianism, intellectual and affective autonomy, and mastery (ambition, daring, and the like).-Peter Kreko, Political Capital InstitutePéter Krekó, is director of the Political Capital Institute and assistant professor of political science at ELTE University in Budapest. He was a Fulbright Visiting Professor at Indiana University in 2016-2017. He previously served as co-chair of the PREVENT working group at the EU Radicalisation Awareness Network (RAN). Krekó is a member of the presidential board of the Hungarian Political Science Association. His research interests include Russian “soft power” policies and political populism and extremism in Europe. He is an author of two books, including The Hungarian Far Right (2017). Kreko’s article “Explaining Eastern Europe: Orbán’s Laboratory of Illiberalism,” co-written with Zsolt Enyedi, appears in the July 2018 issue of the Journal of Democracy. Follow him on Twitter @peterkreko.On the one hand, democratic backsliding and rising illiberalism in Central and Eastern Europe is part of a broader trend. The nationalistic turn in Hungary has undoubtedly drawn legitimization from the Western world’s larger shift toward identity politics. The general backlash against political correctness led Hungarian leaders to realize that there is nothing inevitable about the growing influence of progressive-liberal values. These global changes have re-amplified the authoritarian characteristics of Central and East European political culture, especially the prevalence of “hierarchy values” over the values of egalitarianism, intellectual and affective autonomy, and mastery (ambition, daring, and the like). Additionally, low social trust and disillusionment with democracy and capitalism have made it difficult to build a civil society robust enough to defend pluralism. Weak democratic institutions are also less resistant to transformative political will. This anti-liberal climate has even engulfed one of the region’s strongest economic performers, the Czech Republic, where Miloš Zeman won re-election to the presidency in January 2018 by whipping up fear of refugees in a country that hosts no refugees. In Poland, trends similar to those in Hungary are apparent as well. At the same time, the region is not monolithic. In Slovakia, even strongman Robert Fico had to step down as premier when March 2018 protests over the murder of an investigative journalist became more than he could handle. In Romania, demonstrators have triggered a number of changes of government in recent years, and the Baltic states have bounced back from a devastating financial crisis without abandoning liberal democracy.Illiberalism’s only obstacle is the decentralization of power, in which there are more spheres of political, social, and economic autonomy than just one central public authority. This is why countries that allow for a more centralized power structure, like that which was prevalent during the Communist period, have a stronger drive towards illiberalism.-Wojciech Przybylski, Visegrad InsightWojciech Przybylski is editor-in-chief of  Visegrad Insight, and chairman of Res Publica Foundation in Warsaw. Previously, Przybylski served as editor-in-chief of  Eurozine, a magazine representing a network of European cultural journals, and of the Polish journal  Res Publica Nowa. He launched and leads the “New Europe 100” project that brings together a community of successful innovators from CEE across the fields of business, research media, civil society, and public administration, run jointly by Res Publica, Financial Times, and Google. He is the editor (with Marcin Moskalewicz) of  Understanding Central Europe (2017). Przybylski’s article “Explaining Eastern Europe: Can Poland’s Backsliding Be Stopped?” appears in the July 2018 issue of the Journal of Democracy. Follow him on Twitter @wprzybylski.For many years, Central Europe was driven, often through painful reforms, by the dream of becoming part of the West. Specifically, Poles have looked up to the US, UK, and Germany as models to both mirror and shape their democracy. Now, after 30 years, there is a growing weariness in Central and Eastern with the old slogans of “catching up” with the West. In some countries, such as Hungary, people do not feel that they are catching up at all. Several previously unsuccessful leaders saw an opportunity in this shift in perception and have proposed “new” reforms that would revive the dream of escaping the gloom they saw all around them—a gloom that they believe exists despite the region’s macroeconomic progress.In this milieu, Russia has seen an opportunity to actively amplify a narrative of revisionism and rebellion against the world order in the region and further afield. This interference, combined with the rampant corruption existing in Central Europe, aims to promote oligarchy as the best alternative to both liberal democracy and direct, military control. For some countries, it is easier to implement this authoritarian shift due to their centralized systems of governance. Illiberalism’s only obstacle is the decentralization of power, in which there are more spheres of political, social, and economic autonomy than just one central public authority. This is why countries that allow for a more centralized power structure, like that which was prevalent during the Communist period, have a stronger drive towards illiberalism.The main determinant of today’s illiberalism in Central and Eastern Europe is a fundamental change in the pattern of status mobility and elite formation that took place in the early 1990s. This root cause gave a regional twist to an assortment of derivative causes, including inequality, demographic shifts, weak liberal values and an upsurge of nationalism.-Dimitrina Petrova, SOS Children’s VillagesDimitrina Petrova is a Bulgarian human rights activist and Program Director of SOS Children’s Villages. From 2007 to 2016, she was executive director of the Equal Rights Trust, a London-based NGO she formed to promote a holistic approach to nondiscrimination and equality worldwide. Following a career in Bulgarian politics after the collapse of communism, she has dedicated much of her efforts to defending the rights of East-Central Europe’s Roma minority through her role as director of the Human Rights Project and later, as founder and executive director of the European Roma Rights Centre in Budapest. The main determinant of today’s illiberalism in Central and Eastern Europe is a fundamental change in the pattern of status mobility and elite formation that took place in the early 1990s. This root cause gave a regional twist to an assortment of derivative causes, including inequality, demographic shifts, weak liberal values and an upsurge in nationalism. In 1989, people gave up on socio-economic equality, but they did not give up on fairness. Hopes for a society fairer than communism were shattered by the redistribution of wealth and power during a brief twilight period after 1989. Efforts to introduce fair play could not catch up with unbridled grabbing. The new, anti-meritocratic pattern of status mobility was experienced as profound unfairness. This gave birth to powerful political and cultural sentiments that evolved in parallel over the following decade: a deepening mistrust of post-1989 elites coupled with a textbook case of scapegoating, projecting outwards on perceived safe targets such as minorities, foreigners, and refugees. The upswing of illiberalism began in 2010, one generation after the fall of communism, when it was too soon to forget but too late to undo the new social pyramids. [i] Condensed from the July 2018 Journal of Democracy article “Imitation and Its Discontents.” “The 16+1 Initiative: China’s Divisive Equation for Central and Eastern Europe” by Martin Hala for the Power 3.0 blog.“Central and Eastern Europe: Power, Fairness, and the Future of Democracy,” a May 2018 event featuring Bulgarian human rights defender Dimitrina Petrova.“The Roots of Illiberalism in Hungary and Central Europe,” a February 2018 event featuring political economist Gabor Scheiring.“How Disinformation Impacts Politics and Publics,” an International Forum issue brief by Dean Jackson. Image Credit: Peter Tkac/FlickrIn the January 2018 issue of the Journal of Democracy, Christopher Walker and...Dr. Lilia Shevtsova to speak at Embassy of CanadaWashington,...Russian political analyst Lilia Shevtsova will examine...A number of Latin American countries are in the midst...
#Pre-Release: “What Is ‘Sharp Power’?” by Christopher Walker in the Journal of Democracy#July 9, 2018#In an era of globalization coupled with authoritarian resurgence, the institutions of a growing number of democracies are straining to comprehend and to deal with the projection of authoritarian influence through more diverse channels than ever before. In the July 2018 issue of the Journal of Democracy, Christopher Walker defines the pervasive threat of “sharp power,” a term coined by the NED’s International Forum for Democratic Studies to identify authoritarian influence efforts that seek to pierce, penetrate, and perforate the political and information environments of targeted countries. On an unprecedented scale, authoritarian regimes are employing “sharp power” tactics to manipulate the very institutions that serve as the foundation of democracy, such as free media. Defining and unmasking authoritarian “sharp power” initiatives is a critical first step in counteracting the distorting effects of authoritarian influence in free and open societies.Sharp power is part and parcel of the internationalist turn that authoritarian states have taken in recent years, and its effects are increasingly visible in the institutions critical to democracies’ being able to function as free and self-governing societies.Image Credit: ImageFlow/Shutterstock Please join the Council of the Americas, Americas Quarterly, and the National...The Journal of Democracy October issue features essays...Journal of Democracy coeditor Marc F. Plattner discusses...Authoritarianism Goes Global gained much attention...The International Forum for Democratic Studies at...Joseph Nye and Shanthi Kalathil joined the Pacific Council's 2018 Teleconference...
#Carl Gershman on Taiwan’s Democracy and the Democratic Future#June 25, 2018#It’s a great honor for me to make keynote remarks at this celebration of the 15th anniversary of the Taiwan Foundation for Democracy (TFD), and to follow President Tsai Ing-wen, who is an important new leader for democracy in Asia.  As the first woman to be elected President of Taiwan, she represents the extraordinary progress Taiwan has made in building a dynamic, stable, and successful liberal democracy.It is also a great pleasure for me to be here with Foreign Minister Joseph Wu, a committed and impassioned democrat who has said that his proudest moments have been when foreign friends have given a thumbs up to Taiwan’s accomplishments in advancing democracy and developing civil society.  I, too, want to give him a thumbs up for Taiwan’s democracy, and also for his decision to recruit my friend, the TFD’s President, Szu-chien Hsu, to be Deputy Foreign Minister.  This is a dramatic statement that Taiwan wants to play an ambitious, hopeful, and forward-looking role in defending its interests and advancing democracy in the world.Szu-chien has invited me to speak this morning about how the TFD and NED can join forces with others around the world who share our democratic vision, and forge an even closer relationship at a time when democracy is being challenged as never before since the end of the Cold War.  We are building on a long and fruitful friendship, beginning in 1995 when NED teamed up with the Institute for National Policy Research to hold the most important conference ever convened on “The Third Wave of Democratization.”    We brought together in Taiwan dozens of the most important democratic scholars and intellectuals on democracy, among them Robert Dahl, Samuel Huntington, Seymour Martin Lipset, Juan Linz, Larry Diamond, and many more.  The conference was not just a memorable event in the history of scholarship on democracy, but also a great celebration of Taiwan as one of the world’s leading third-wave democracies.That first joint initiative was soon followed by another milestone event – an enormous ceremony in the U.S. Congress in April 1996 honoring Lee Teng-hui soon after he became the first popularly-elected president in Taiwan’s history.  It was one of the biggest events NED has ever held – attended by three dozen members of Congress and addressed by 7 senators and 12 House members, including Senate Minority Leader Tom Daschle and House committee chairmen Ben Gilman, Bob Livingston, and Gerald Soloman.In October 1997 we held another major international conference in Taiwan promoting the idea that other countries should establish NED-like foundations to advance democracy.  It was attended by important leaders from 19 countries, among them Australia, Brazil, France, Germany, India, Israel, Italy, South Korea, the Philippines, Poland, Spain, Sweden, and the United Kingdom.  Russia was still a democracy then, and it was represented by Galina Starovoytova who had been Boris Yeltsin’s spokesperson and adviser on inter-ethnic issues.  Her assassination the following year in St. Petersburg marked an ominous turning-point in Russia’s decline into authoritarianism.The partnership between NED and Taiwan deepened in November 2000 when President Chen Shui-bian sent a message to the Second Global Assembly of the World Movement for Democracy held in Sao Paulo, Brazil, in which he announced Taiwan’s intention to establish the first democracy foundation in Asia.  The TFD was formally inaugurated on June 17, 2003, and our cooperation since then has been strong and continuous, highlighted most recently by the joint memorial event we held last September 7 remembering Nobel Laureate Lui Xiaobo.Szu-chien’s appeal to deepen this cooperation comes at a time, as he said, when democracy is being challenged as never before in recent history.  This challenge has three basic dimensions.  The first is resurgent authoritarianism, meaning the growing threat to democracy posed by China, Russia, Iran and other autocracies, and the geopolitical retreat of American power.  The second is the democratic backsliding in countries like Venezuela Hungary, Poland, the Philippines, Thailand, and Turkey.  And the third is the rise of illiberal populism and nationalism in the democratic West.  As President Tsai has already noted, Freedom House has documented 12 consecutive years of democratic decline.Yet I think it’s a mistake to assume that the decline of democracy is inevitable or irreversible. Democracy was thought to be in terminal decline in 1982 when Ronald Reagan delivered his great Westminster Address that launched the creation of the National Endowment for Democracy.  The Solidarity movement had just been suppressed in Poland, the Soviet Union had invaded Afghanistan, and the U.S. was still reeling from the defeat in Vietnam.  Daniel Patrick Moynihan had famously declared in 1976 on the occasion of the U.S. bicentennial that “Democracy is where the world was, not where the world is going.”Yet Reagan said that he saw a “democratic revolution gathering new strength” in the world, and he was right.  What Samuel Huntington was later to call “the third wave of democratization” was just beginning to gain momentum in the early 1980s, and while it was later to crest with the fall of authoritarian regimes in Latin America and East Asia and the collapse of communism in Central Europe and the Soviet Union, none of that could have been anticipated in 1982.I don’t know if a fourth wave of democratization is now gathering strength, but we shouldn’t discount that possibility.  I would call your attention to some encouraging recent events – among them the remarkable democratic transition in The Gambia, the fall of the corrupt Zuma government in South Africa, the stunning victory of democracy in Malaysia and the freeing of opposition leader Anwar Ibrahim, the equally stunning triumph in Armenia of the democratic opposition, and the successful local elections in Tunisia that are a decisive step forward in the Arab world’s first democracy.These are just a few of the examples I could give of recent democratic advances.  Gains have also been made in Slovakia and Ethiopia, and there is even a small new opening in the relatively closed Central Asian country of Uzbekistan. These changes show that we should never underestimate the desire of ordinary people for freedom and dignity, or the extent of the popular anger at corrupt and unresponsive government officials.Nor should we assume that strongmen always win.  Many people thought communism would last forever because it had concentrated so much power in the hands of the ruling bureaucracy.  Yet Reagan understood the vulnerability of closed and corrupt political systems, which is why he declared in his Westminster Address that “the march of freedom and democracy…will leave Marxism-Leninism on the ash-heap of history as it has left other tyrannies which stifle the freedom and muzzle the self-expression of the people.”  That vision remains relevant today.For example, the Islamic Republic of Iran is a failed system, which was shown by the protests that swept over the country less than six months ago and that are recurring as we meet today.  The Bolivarian dictatorship in Venezuela and the Ortega regime in Nicaragua are also failed systems, not to mention Cuban and North Korea dictatorships and the stagnant Russian kleptocracy.  Even in communist Vietnam there were large demonstrations just several weeks ago in seven cities protesting two new laws tightening cybersecurity and giving China new privileges in special economic zones.  China is another case of autocratic vulnerability that I’ll discuss in a moment.Democracy is thus inherently resilient, and we have the capacity to help it regain momentum and put its enemies on the defensive.  In 2015 the U.S. Congress called upon NED to push back against the new challenges to democracy when it gave us special funds to develop a strategic response to resurgent authoritarianism.  We quickly developed a comprehensive plan that consisted of six strategic priorities:The TFD is already working on some of these issues, and there are panels at this conference on fighting extremism and defending the integrity of the information space.  I look forward to deepening our cooperation at every level. We can work together in different countries; build the World Movement for Democracy, the global network that just held its ninth global assembly in Dakar, Senegal; and join together in the International Coalition for Democratic Renewal, a network of public intellectuals and democracy activists that is being coordinated by the Prague-based Forum 2000, an organization created two decades ago by Vaclav Havel and that is represented at this conference by its director Jakub Klepal. The TFD is to be commended for taking the lead in establishing the International Coalition’s China Working Group.Given the growing role that the TFD is playing in advancing democracy, I want to humbly suggest that the Legislative Yuan consider increasing its funding so that the TFD can become a stronger NED partner in responding to the momentous challenges to democracy that I have described.I’ve just visited Japan and South Korea on this trip, and I can assure you that leaders in both of these countries are greatly concerned about the threat to the liberal order in Asia that is growing as a result of China’s rise and the U.S. retreat.  Many of the people we met with would welcome closer collaboration with Taiwan and the TFD in building greater democratic unity in defense of the liberal order in this region.Taiwan has a special voice and unique perspective in addressing the challenge posed by China, which American foreign-policy leaders now see as the greatest threat in the world today to democratic norms and U.S. security interests.Liu Xiaobo understood this problem very well.  In an essay he wrote in 2006, he warned that if China continued to rise as a dictatorship as Hitler’s Germany, the Meiji Emperor’s Japan, and Stalin’s Soviet Union had done in the last century, the result would not only be a catastrophe for the Chinese people but a disaster for the spread of liberal democracy in the world.No one listened to him back then because the conventional wisdom at the time in the foreign-policy establishment and the business community was that China’s growth was a good thing because it would lead to liberalization, as it did here in Taiwan and in South Korea.  But that hasn’t happened.  China’s growth has had the opposite effect of reinforcing Beijing’s belief in the legitimacy and superiority of its state-driven economic model.  In addition, with the new wealth it has amassed, Beijing has been enabled to play a much more assertive role internationally, totally upending the delusion that its growth would be good for democracy and the rules-based global order.The Economist magazine reflected the breakdown of the old consensus when it bluntly declared in March, after Xi Jinping announced his intention to remain in power indefinitely that “The West’s 25-year bet on China has failed.”  The China scholar Orville Schell expressed the new attitude toward China when he wrote recently that the disillusionment with Beijing actually began long before Xi cemented his grip on the Politburo.  “Be it saber-rattling in the South China Sea,” he wrote, “proselytizing on American college campuses [through more than 100 Confucius Institutes], theft of corporate secrets, or censorship of the web, China has alienated one constituency after another in the U.S.”The U.S. is only beginning to understand the new era that we have entered as a result of what The Economist has called “the starkest reversal in modern geopolitics.”  As it considers how to address this historic new challenge, I think the U.S. needs to consider the value of Taiwan as a unique and strategically positioned political ally.  Taiwan is a concrete and credible democratic alternative to “the new option” of authoritarian development that Xi promoted in his address to the 19th Party Congress last October.To be sure, Beijing claims what the political scientists call performance legitimacy because of its economic growth.  But it lacks political legitimacy because the regime was never freely elected, and its insecurity shows in many different ways.  Why, for example, must Xi prohibit what he calls “historical nihilism,” meaning any discussion of the Tiananmen massacre or such Maoist disasters like the Cultural Revolution?  Why was it necessary to eliminate a peaceful dissident like Liu Xiaobo, or to arrest hundreds of human rights lawyers, suppress the Christian house-church movement, and expunge the cultural and religious identity of the Tibetan and Uyghur minorities?  By stoking nationalism to fill the void left by the death of communist ideology, the regime just exposes its failure to develop values with broad appeal.Why, therefore, should we assume that the so-called “China model” will not also end up, as Reagan said, on the ash-heap of history?  Having Taiwan as an alternative “China model” will only sharpen the CCP’s crisis of political legitimacy.Taiwan is also an inspiration to people in other Asian countries – and non-Asian countries as well – who are fighting for democracy.  One of our participants today is a Vietnamese activist name Trinh Huu Long, who runs a democracy organization called Legal Initiatives for Vietnam, and who is now studying at the National Chengchi University here in Taiwan.  As we were hiking yesterday in Sanli Park – at least, when we paused for rest during our steep climb – he explained to me three compelling reasons why Taiwan’s successful model of democracy can aid Vietnamese democracy activists.The first is that the example of Taiwan as a successful Confucian democracy counters the argument used by apologists for dictatorship in Vietnam that hierarchical Asian societies cannot become democracies and respect individual human rights.The second is that as a small country threatened by the large neighboring dictatorship of China, Taiwan’s example counters the argument that a small country must accommodate its large neighbor and that it should not provoke it by becoming a democracy.And finally, as a stable and successful new democracy, Taiwan’s example helps counter the argument used by apologists for authoritarianism who point to the Arab Spring or to backsliding Asian countries like Thailand and the Philippines to claim that democracy brings chaos.  Taiwan shows that democracy can bring economic progress and human fulfillment.People in Taiwan might not realize that their model is looked to in this way by democrats in a country like Vietnam.  But it is, and this is an important way in which Taiwan projects its influence in Asia and beyond.  If China, as Liu Xiaobo said, is a “blood-transfusion machine” for the world’s dictatorships, Taiwan is a catalytic inspiration for democracy, and the TFD is an instrument for projecting Taiwan’s democratic influence internationally.Finally, Taiwan offers a model of democratic courage and determination at a time when many democracies lack the will to defend democratic values.  We all know that China threatens Taiwan in many different ways.  It uses Sharp Power to divide and undermine Taiwan politically.  It uses economic leverage to try to subdue it through absorption.  It uses diplomatic efforts to isolate Taiwan internationally. And it uses various hard-power military exercises – large naval exercises in the South China Sea, live-fire drills in the Taiwan Strait, and the dispatch of Chinese bombers to circumnavigate the island — to intimidate Taiwan and force it into submission.Yet none of this has worked. The Economist reports that “the more China closes Taiwan’s diplomatic space, the more Ms. Tsai’s creative use of unofficial diplomacy grows,” in particular, the New Southbound Policy that has forged deeper ties with neighbors in Southeast Asia, Australia, and Japan.  A new study by the Lowy Institute in Sydney notes that Australia’s interest in the New Southbound Policy contrasts sharply with Canberra’s skepticism about Beijing’s Belt and Road Initiative.  In addition, the China expert John Pomfret has written that U.S. analysts and officials have come to reject the view, once held by leaders like Lee Kwan Yew and Henry Kissinger, that Taiwan will inevitably be absorbed by a rising China.  He notes two recent scholarly articles that express doubt that China has the capacity and even the will to take over Taiwan.Significantly, a recently published survey found that up to 86% of Taiwan’s youth support the democratic political system, and that 70% would fight if the Mainland invaded.  The survey quotes Szu-chien Hsu to the effect that “the more people are committed to democracy, the more they are willing to defend Taiwan should it be attacked.”I believe that Taiwan’s strong and strengthening alliance with the United States – symbolized by the recent opening of the large de facto U.S. embassy here in Taipei – will deter such an attack.  But in the end, the decisive determinant for Taiwan’s survival is the will of the Taiwanese people – forged in the battle for democracy, toughened by adversity, and strengthened by an increasingly vibrant and participatory civil society, economy, and democratic political process.President Tsai has called Taiwan “a model citizen in global civil society.”  It is actually much more than that.  It is an inspiration for those who aspire to democracy, a partner for democracy advocates and practitioners around the world, and an agent for democratic change at a time when democracy is under assault and even its traditional friends and spokesmen are beset by doubt.That such a small and beleaguered country can play such a role, directly and through an institution of democratic solidarity like the Taiwan Foundation for Democracy, enables us to take hope that democracy, despite all the obstacles and adversaries it faces, will in the end prevail.Thank you.Authors of the report, "Sharp Power": Rising Authoritarian Influence, discussed...Carl Gershman reflects on the state of democracy in...Democracy in East Asia and Taiwan in Global PerspectiveA...Andrew H. Card Jr., former White House chief of staff...One way or another, a transition in North Korea is...Read Carl Gershman's Remarks on authoritarianism in the Milwaukee-Wisconsin...
#Forum Q&A: Alex Magaisa on Zimbabwe’s Upcoming 2018 Elections#June 21, 2018#TWEET | SHARE  | PDFAlex Magaisa is a prominent Zimbabwean lawyer and constitutional expert currently teaching law at the University of Kent Law School in England. Between 2012 and 2013, he was chief of staff and principal advisor to Morgan Tsvangirai, then Zimbabwe’s prime minister in a coalition government and leader of the Movement for Democratic Change, the country’s main opposition party. In 2011–2012, Dr. Magaisa served as a key advisor to COPAC, the parliamentary committee that wrote Zimbabwe’s new Constitution, which was approved at a referendum and signed into law in 2013. He is the author of a widely acclaimed blog offering in-depth analyses of law and politics in Zimbabwe. He is currently a Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellow at the National Endowment for Democracy. On July 10, 2018, he led a presentation that focused on “Elections in Zimbabwe: Autocracy and Stasis, or Democracy and Change?”In late July 2018, Zimbabweans head to the polls for the first elections since Robert Mugabe was removed from office after ruling the country for 37 years. The new president, Emmerson Mnangagwa, has promised to enact numerous reforms to improve Zimbabwe’s economic and political situation. Mnangagwa enjoys the support of the military and entrenched elite that served the Mugabe regime, making his willingness and ability to make positive changes unclear. Meanwhile, long-serving opposition leader Morgan Tsvangirai died in 2018, leaving Nelson Chamisa to lead the opposition MDC-T party. These new internal political dynamics are occurring against the backdrop of increased interest by the Russian and Chinese governments in Zimbabwe’s vast mineral wealth.Melissa Aten of the International Forum for Democratic Studies spoke with Alex Magaisa about these new political dynamics and what they mean for the future of Zimbabwe. (This interview has been condensed and edited for clarity. The views and opinions expressed here do not necessarily reflect those of the National Endowment for Democracy.) Melissa Aten: The past nine months have been eventful for Zimbabwe, with the removal of long-time president Robert Mugabe, the installation of Emmerson Mnangagwa as the new leader, and the death of long-standing opposition leader Morgan Tsvangirai. Now, elections are scheduled for July 30. Given your experience working with the MDC-T party in Zimbabwe, what opportunities does the opposition have to bring democratic reform and economic growth to Zimbabwe?Alex Magaisa: It’s very difficult in Zimbabwean elections and African elections in general to fight against a powerful and entrenched incumbent. In Zimbabwe the big problem is that the current leader is basically in office because of the military, so the military has a huge stake in his continued stay in office. It’s an enormous task, but I also think that the opposition has managed to mobilize and organize far better than anybody could have imagined after the death of Morgan Tsvangirai. The chances are looking good if they can overcome the impediments that are always put in place by the ruling party.The opposition recently held a big demonstration to demand electoral reforms, essentially asking the Zimbabwe Electoral Commission, which is the referee, to be impartial and to do all that is required by the law. It was such a huge and well-organized rally, which demonstrated the power and organizational capacity of the opposition. The ruling party, ZANU-PF, also tried to organize a counter-demonstration. They wanted to do it on the same day as the opposition rally, but the police refused to give them permission. They had it the next day, and it was such a poorly attended and poorly organized rally. If you compare the two, many people have begun to see that the opposition has better prospects than they could have imagined.The opposition also recently launched its manifesto, which was very well received by the people of Zimbabwe. It’s a far better, more detailed, well-articulated document than the manifesto released by ZANU-PF a few weeks ago. So all of these have combined to demonstrate that the opposition is ready to govern, and I think it has given a lot of people some hope.The challenge is that if the opposition wins this election, as in 2008, some elements within the ruling establishment may refuse to give up power just like they did then. The 2008 election resulted in a huge crisis that eventually led to a coalition government, which meant that the ruling party kept the lion’s share of power and the opposition was there essentially to sanitize the whole arrangement. I think the international community needs to come in and really make it known that they will not accept the Zimbabwean government as a legitimate government if they refuse to give up power.The challenge is that if the opposition wins this election, as in 2008, some elements within the ruling establishment may refuse to give up power just like they did then.The military played a significant role in removing Mugabe in November. What role will the military play in the July 30 elections, and how does the military erode constitutionalism in Zimbabwe?One of the permanent images that you see in Zimbabwe is that whenever the president is presenting a speech, there’s always someone standing behind him. And that person is wearing a beret – it’s a soldier. Mugabe used to have a policeman, but this new president has a soldier. It’s a very symbolic image that says behind him there is a military that supports him. The military hasn’t stopped being involved in politics. It has been involved in politics for a long time. I think they came out more openly last November in order to remove Mugabe, and I don’t think that they have left the stage. One of the current vice presidents is actually the general who led the coup. So, the military is ever-present, and it has a stake in the political arena. They will want to make sure that they protect their interests and the economic gains they have made over the years. And, they will try to ensure that the election is in ZANU-PF’s favor. If ZANU-PF doesn’t win the election, the hope is that the military doesn’t interfere with the transfer of power.The Zimbabwean military elite and the political elite in ZANU-PF have a vast network that reaches into virtually every sector of the economy, including mining, agriculture, and whatever is left of manufacturing in Zimbabwe. After they retire, many senior military figures end up in the semi-private sector, working for state-owned companies as directors, board members, or chief executive officers. They also work for different arms of the state. The military has a huge stake in virtually every sector of the economy, but the diamond sector has been by far the most lucrative for them in the last 10 years.The military has a specific role in the constitution. I was involved in the drafting of the constitution and one of the things that we really emphasized was that the military has to be apolitical, it has to be non-partisan, it is not supposed to interfere in politics, and they must keep to the barracks. Unfortunately, over the years the military has been involved in politics and in trying to promote the interests of ZANU-PF and prejudice the interests of other political parties. The military elite were together with ZANU-PF politicians from the war of independence in the 1970s, and so they are friends, they are comrades, and they share the same mentality. That’s a huge challenge.The Zimbabwean military elite and the political elite in ZANU-PF have a vast network that reaches into virtually every sector of the economy, including mining, agriculture, and whatever is left of manufacturing in Zimbabwe.Do you believe the current government in Zimbabwe favors Paul Kagame’s Rwanda model, which prioritizes stability and minimizes democratic development? How does the international community play into this, and what are the roles of China and Russia in Zimbabwe? After the spread of multi-party democracy in the 1990s in much of Africa, there has been a rise in authoritarian dictators who prioritize what they call economic prosperity or stability. With this rise of the strong man, they are able to extend their terms of office and stay in office for a long time, often using very populist rhetoric. They conduct referendums where they get huge amounts of votes, and they establish their legitimacy that way.Rwanda has been hailed as a success story in Africa in terms of economic progress, but that ignores the democracy and human rights situation in the country. I think that the current Zimbabwean president sees Rwandan leader Paul Kagame as a role model, and Rwanda as an example that can be emulated. In fact, over the last few months, he invited one of the top figures in Kagame’s government to give a lecture to his own ministers, because he was impressed by how the Rwandan government manages the economy. Clearly, there is an inclination towards Rwanda.I also understand that Mnangagwa sees himself as a Deng Xiaoping of Zimbabwe, as in the Chinese leader who came after Mao and who opened China to the world by adopting some free market principles while keeping the communist system intact. Mnangagwa sees himself as that guy who will come after Mugabe to do something different. But, as we all know, China remains an authoritarian state with vast human rights violations despite its economic success.Russia is also having some influence. The Russians have been interested in Zimbabwe over the last few years, probably due to Zimbabwe’s minerals. They sent the Russian foreign minister, Sergey Lavrov, who is a very powerful man, to Zimbabwe twice in the last three years. At first, when Mugabe was in power, and second, immediately after the new president came into office. There is a clear statement of intent there by the Russians, because they have huge mineral or mining interests in Zimbabwe that they’re trying to secure. The Chinese are already heavily invested in Zimbabwe. They have been for many years. By the way, the relationship between China, Russia, and Zimbabwe goes back to the days of the Liberation War. They supported the nationalist movements in Zimbabwe in the 1970s. ZANU-PF feels that it owes both China and Russia for all that support over the years.The Chinese government has exploited its relationship with Zimbabwe. They had great interest in the diamond sector in Zimbabwe, and Chinese mining companies were taking raw diamonds to China with very little benefit to the local communities or even to Zimbabwe in general. The Chinese government was very unhappy when Mugabe nationalized those companies.The Chinese government has never been concerned with the politics or human rights situation in Zimbabwe. Their interest is to continue to support ZANU-PF. They have programs between the Chinese Communist Party and ZANU-PF.  They send young Zimbabweans for training and programs. ZANU-PF regards China as an “all-weather” friend.I should mention that the Chinese have also done quite a bit in Zimbabwe. They built the National Defense University, just outside Harare. It’s probably the best-equipped university in Zimbabwe, but it’s also a military establishment built by the Chinese. Even the labor is coming from China. They have also signed a deal to build Zimbabwe’s new parliament building. Of course, this worries people after the scandal over the surveillance devices found in the African Union building in Addis Ababa built by the Chinese. The Chinese government comes up with all these projects where they say they’re donating to or they’re doing something for Zimbabwe, but, of course, in exchange, they get far more.After the spread of multi-party democracy in the 1990s in much of Africa, there has been a rise in authoritarian dictators who prioritize what they call economic prosperity or stability. With this rise of the strong man, they are able to extend their terms of office and stay in office for a long time, often using very populist rhetoric.When he came to power, President Mnangagwa promised to crack down on corruption, and he recently established an anti-corruption prosecution unit based in his office. You have been critical of this move. What are your main objections to this unit, and what reforms are needed to meaningfully address corruption in Zimbabwe? When Mnangagwa came to power, he made several promises. He promised to fight corruption, but that’s a song that we’ve heard before from his predecessor. He says a lot, but delivers very little, so we are not fooled by what he is saying. Secondly, he has also promised to establish an anti-corruption unit, which would be based in his office. This unit would have prosecutorial powers, which is unconstitutional because the national prosecuting authority is supposed to be independent of the office of the president. The prosecutor general is the person who makes decisions on prosecution and that power cannot be delegated to anyone else, even the president’s office. The president’s office is more likely to abuse this power. If you place an anti-corruption unit in that particular office, you are really compromising it, and you’re compromising the whole authority to prosecute. It’s unconstitutional and it doesn’t make sense.To meaningfully address corruption in Zimbabwe, you need to demonstrate action. When Mnangagwa came to office, he could at least have demonstrated a clear intention that he wants to fight corruption but, unfortunately, he actually appointed many corrupt people to his cabinet. In terms of reforms, you need to start at the very top. You cannot appoint and you cannot work with people who have a known track record of corruption, or where there is suspicion of corruption. You must demonstrate serious intent by actually taking action, implementing the existing anti-corruption laws, and making sure that people who are accused of corruption are investigated. I also think that you need to resource the anti-corruption institutions, including the police and the prosecuting authorities. We have a Zimbabwe Anti-Corruption Commission, but it needs to be resourced. It also needs people who are competent in the job, even if that requires hiring people from outside the country to help with training. Corrupt people are able to hide their tracks, and without competent and well-resourced staff with investigative skills, it is difficult to uncover corruption. Global Witness and others have documented how the military and other elites have looted Zimbabwe’s vast reserves of diamonds, and it has been argued that President Mnangagwa enriched himself by acquiring mining interests in the DRC during its civil war. What are the top reforms required to combat kleptocratic behavior and bring transparency to Zimbabwe’s mineral wealth?It’s important to have legislation that deals with diamond mining, which we don’t have right now. We have an example in Botswana, which has had diamond mining for years. The reason why Botswana has become so successful over the years is because they have used their diamond revenues productively and more fairly across the country, making sure that the company that does the mining, De Beers, only has a 50 percent stake, and the other 50 percent stake belongs to the government of Botswana. So it’s a 50/50 arrangement. The resources are not going to a few hands within a particular group. Botswana’s infrastructure has grown over the years, because they are using the revenues from diamonds for it.The problem with Zimbabwe is that you had all these companies that were given licenses to do diamond mining in Zimbabwe. Some of them were Chinese, with another stake often given to the Zimbabwean government nominally, but the reality was it was never going to the government. It was going to a few pockets—the leader, the political elites, the military elites—and each one of them had a claim in the diamond fields.Zimbabwe needs to borrow the Botswana model. The Zimbabwean government needs to realize that diamonds are a resource that can be used to support an entire community, an entire country. The revenues should be going into the national fiscus. You need to have transparency, you need to have legislation, and you need to have a system that ensures that the resources that are received from diamond mining go into a particular fund that is managed by professionals. There has to be political accountability. We are not reinventing the wheel, so if you ask me what can we do, I would simply say go to Botswana and find out how they do it. Twenty or thirty years ago, Botswana was almost like a rural outlier. People in Botswana came to Zimbabwe to study, they came to Zimbabwe for shopping and other things. Now, Zimbabweans are going to Botswana. It’s a question of leadership. In Botswana, there is a new leader every 10 years, and, even though it’s the same party, they change and someone else comes in. They have got their democracy right in certain ways, and they’re doing enough for their population. They’re doing very well. “Elections in Zimbabwe: Autocracy and Stasis, or Democracy and Change?” a July 10 event at the National Endowment for Democracy, with Alex Magaisa, Alexander H. Noyes, and Natalie KayShanthi Kalathil’s December 2017 Q&A with Aurel Croissant on “Coups, Civil-Military Relations, and Implications for Zimbabwe.”Melissa Aten’s July 2017 Q&A with Rafael Marques de Morais on “Kleptocracy in Angola.” Dean Jackson of the International Forum for Democratic...Scholar and civil-military relations expert Aurel Croissant...The International Forum for Democratic Studies at...The International Forum for Democratic Studies' December 2018 "quick hits" newsletter...
#Ji Seong-ho and Sungju Lee’s Defector Stories#June 20, 2018#Both activists shared their stories during Beyond Pyongyang: Connecting With the People of North Korea, the 2018 Democracy Award morning event.Seoul-based Transitional Justice Working Group aims to map sites of mass killings...North Korea's Human CatastropheBy Carl GershmanThe...One way or another, a transition in North Korea is...Remarks by NED President Carl Gershman at the...In November 2017, NED hosted a former high-ranking North Korean diplomat for...
#Statement of the National Endowment for Democracy on the Selection of Former Ambassador Derek Mitchell as New NDI President#June 14, 2018#The National Endowment for Democracy (NED) welcomes the announcement today that former Ambassador Derek Mitchell will be the next President of the National Democratic Institute (NDI), a core institute of the Endowment. “Derek brings to NDI not only a wealth of experience but also a deep commitment to the core values that underpin democracy,” said NED President Carl Gershman.  “He is a respected leader whom we have known over the years, and we look forward to working even more closely with him now that he is back at NDI,” said Gershman, referring to Mitchell’s early service with NDI as a senior program officer in the mid 1990’s.Mitchell, who served at U.S. Ambassador to Burma from 2012 – 2016, replaces Kenneth Wollack who has provided outstanding leadership as NDI’s president since 1993.“Ken is greatly admired and liked by all of us at NED,” said Gershman. “We are grateful to him for his tremendous contribution to NDI, to the NED, and to the cause of democracy over more than three decades.” Enlightened post Cold War Initiative for Peace Building and Democracy: Enhancing...Warsaw-based Polish Newspaper Gazeta Wyborcza sat down...Kenneth Wollack Presentation of NDI's Harriman Award...This excerpt is from an article based upon remarks...Andrew H. Card Jr., former White House chief of staff...
#International Forum for Democratic Studies June 2018 Newsletter: “China in Xi’s New Era”#June 13, 2018#Also in the April issue, prominent political scientists William A. Galston and Yascha Mounk weigh in on what the rise of populism means for liberal democracies; a report by Michael J. Abramowitz and Sarah Repucci on Freedom House’s new survey, new takes on Kenya’s presidential election, and more.Dean Jackson assesses the tactics used by political actors to shape the information environment and explores the proliferation of digital disinformation in the contemporary information space. The brief highlights how disinformation is consumed, proactive and reactive disinformation strategies in different country contexts, and the scale of the disinformation crisis.On May 30, Bulgarian human rights defender and current Reagan-Fascell Fellow Dimitrina Petrova offered an alternative explanation of the celebrated but misconceived idea of “transitions to democracy,” as well as some reflections on the current political landscape in Central and Eastern Europe, paying specific focus to the transformative potential of civic activism in the region.On April 24 and 25, Christopher Walker traveled to Seoul, South Korea to attend the Asan Plenum, an annual conference hosted by the Asan Institute for Policy Studies. This year’s theme focused on “Illiberal International Order.” Walker spoke on a panel on “Sharp Power,” its implications for democracy, and how the West can combat its influence.A populist and illiberal tide is gaining strength across the globe, posing a serious threat to liberal democracy. On April 3, prominent political scientists William Galston and Yascha Mounk celebrated the launch of their new books while discussing the factors fueling populism’s rise and how democracies can effectively respond. On April 5, Christopher Walker testified before the U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission on “sharp power” and the Chinese government’s influence efforts in Europe and the Asia Pacific. He argues that ‘”soft power” when speaking in the context of authoritarian regimes might be more properly labeled “sharp power,” whose key attributes are outward-facing censorship and manipulation, rather than persuasion and attraction.”Melissa Aten of the International Forum for Democratic Studies spoke with Lilia Shevtsova about transnational kleptocracy and the implications of Russia’s domestic and international policies. Dr. Shevtsova also held an event on April 17 where she examined the paradoxes of Russian-Western relations, the sustainability of the Russian system, and the implications of its struggle for survival.   Please join us for a discussion on “Democratizing China: Insights from Theory...Christopher Walker testified before the U.S.-China...The International Forum for Democratic Studies explores...The National Endowment for Democracy is pleased to...June 12, 2014Democracy Ideas: Charles Mangongera,...Shanthi Kalathil testified in front of the House Foreign Affairs Sub-Committee...
#Forum Q&A: Alberto Vergara on Politics, Parties, and the Prospects for Democracy in Peru#June 7, 2018#TWEET | SHARE  | PDFAlberto Vergara is a professor at the Department of Social and Political Sciences at the Universidad del Pacífico in Lima, Peru. Dr. Vergara has also been a lecturer in Latin American politics at Harvard University and Sciences Po, Paris. His research focuses primarily on representation, accountability, and subnational politics and has been published in the Journal of Democracy, Latin American Research Review, and the Journal of Politics in Latin America, among other publications. He is currently a Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellow at the National Endowment for Democracy in Washington, DC. His June 7, 2018 presentation at the Endowment focuses on “The End of Peru’s Success Story?”In March 2018, Pedro Pablo Kuczynski resigned from the Peruvian presidency under the shadow of a corruption scandal after completing less than two years in office. Representing a political party that he himself founded in 2014, one of the key challenges Kuczynski faced as president was the lack of a strong, dedicated base of political support. His successor, Martin Vizcarra, plans to finish out the remainder of Kuczynski’s five-year term and has pledged not to seek reelection.Jessica Ludwig of the International Forum for Democratic Studies spoke with Peruvian political scientist Alberto Vergara about the declining importance of structured political parties in Peru and the subsequent crisis of political representation. (This interview has been condensed and edited for clarity. The views and opinions expressed within do not necessarily reflect those of the National Endowment for Democracy.) Jessica Ludwig: In an article for the Journal of Democracy July 2016 issue, you and your coauthor, Aaron Watanabe, identified a theme in Peruvian politics whereby the past several presidents, despite having helped rebuild Peruvian democracy and grow Peru’s economy, have struggled to connect with the Peruvian population in meaningful ways. What would you diagnose as the root cause of this political dynamic, and how has this influenced the current political landscape in Peru today? Alberto Vergara: Going back in history, in the 1970s, Peru had a dictatorship that damaged political parties and social organizations. Then, in the 1980s, political violence yielded devastating consequences for many political and social organizations. Next came the neoliberal reforms, which as in other Latin American countries harmed the unions and other kinds of social organizations. Ultimately, as a consequence of all this, the classic social density that helps link politicians and their policies to society was eroded in Peru in a more drastic way than in other places, and the country has still not recovered.Since the 1990s, the lack of social-political linkages has actually been useful to leaders for managing the country. What is paradoxical is that the lack of organized political vehicles, social groups, and civil society has helped, not hindered, the economic boom of the last 15-20 years. In other Latin American countries, civil and political organizations opposed market reforms, but this did not happen in Peru. Lacking organized opposition, Peruvian presidents who were very unpopular and had only shallow roots connecting them to society were still able to make the economy grow rapidly.However, Pedro Pablo Kuczynski is the proof that this model has reached a clear limit: being a president without a party no longer worked for him. Kuczynski did not care about being popular because the other presidents were not, and they still succeeded in governing for five years. Of course, there are mistakes that can be attributed to Kuczynski’s administration, but my assessment would be that the problems were more systemic.The system of governing without parties eroded for different reasons. One is that Kuczynski’s administration was the first government that did not deliver economic growth. For the country’s establishment, political legitimacy is not as important as economic management legitimacy. In some ways, it was a perfect storm because Kuczynski had less party support, a diminished presence in different parts of the country, and a smaller support base in parliament than previous presidents. Although he reproduced several dimensions of the system that benefitted previous presidents, he was in a weaker position from the beginning. In the end, this explains why he resigned and left office.The classic social density that helps link politicians and their policies to society was eroded in Peru in a more drastic way than in other places, and the country has still not recovered.Are there any political or institutional reforms that would help political parties in Peru reconnect with their constituents or that would encourage politicians to build political parties again? I do not think so. Now you have an ecosystem with free agents that have learned to survive and prosper in a system without any established parties. As Mauricio Zavaleta has demonstrated, politicians have learned to play with existing informal rules, and incentives have discouraged the establishment of linkages. The result is that politicians and other influential actors have learned to conduct politics without parties. If there were a push toward the creation of parties, I believe it would be sparked by incentives from political competition, rather than top-down reforms. In Peru, where there have historically been no parties at all, Fujimorismo (the Fuerza Popular political party led by Keiko Fujimori, daughter of former Peruvian president Alberto Fujimori) seems to represent a relatively more articulated and cohesive organization. The success of Fujimorismo may represent an incentive for the formation of other political parties, or at least some sort of loose coalition. In March 2018, Pedro Pablo Kuczynski resigned from the presidency after having narrowly avoided impeachment in December 2017. Did his administration repeat the same mistakes of his predecessors? Kuczynski made the same kinds of mistakes, but in a deteriorated context. His main mistake was lacking responsiveness towards citizens, including his primary constituency. In particular, the liberal center that opposed Fujimorismo felt a sense of betrayal. Kuczynski primarily won the election because he was seen to embody the defense of democracy and the rule of law, in contrast to Fujimorismo. He framed the campaign in terms of defending democracy, the rule of law, and countering corruption, but he abandoned these objectives once he was in power. After promising to confront Fujimorismo, he instead made an arrangement with them, giving several positions to people close to the [Fuerza Popular] party. Kuczysnki surrendered in the fight against Fujimorismo in an effort to govern peacefully with them because they had a majority in the congress. Yet he never convinced the Fujimoristas to cooperate with him. And simultaneously, he lost support from the people who had voted for him in hopes he would pursue more democratic ways of governing. Kuczynski was elected with only a narrow majority in a second-round run-off against Keiko Fujimori, the daughter of former Peruvian president Alberto Fujimori, and the Fujimorista party Fuerza Popular currently enjoys a congressional majority. What is Fujimorismo, and what are the party and its leaders’ specific political aims? Why does Fujimorismo resonate with parts of the Peruvian population?Why does Fujimorismo resonate with some people? One factor is that for some in Peru, the Fujimori government in the 1990s was a good government: it reestablished economic and political order in the country after the bankruptcy of the 1980s and early 1990s, as well as the defeat of armed groups like the Shining Path.Alberto Fujimori’s legacy combined with Keiko Fujimori’s qualities as a candidate and record as someone who established some basic organizational support are a second factor. Alberto Fujimori rejected having a party in the 1990s because he enjoyed the support of the army and the media. Keiko has been a decent candidate: she is smart, a hard worker, and has constructed alliances with different sorts of regional and social leaders, including leaders with links to some informal and even illegal activities.In addition, the party has an asset that usually is not considered in the equation—it has never been in power. If Keiko Fujimori does not go into government, people will say that she hasn’t yet been given an opportunity.What the party stands for is less clear. It is a non-programmatic party. Its positions are the result of contingent alliances formed during the campaign period. When candidates need money or when the party needs organization, it makes pacts that carry political obligations. Policies therefore respond to those pacts and obligations, but do not reflect a uniform set of ideas. What really shapes Fujimorismo are the economic interests that have found a base of support in Fujimorismo, in order to protect the party’s own interests. What types of policies and direction can we expect to see from Peru’s new president, Martin Vizcarra, who was Kuczynski’s vice president and also served as Peru’s ambassador to Canada? I do not see any reason to think he is going to change important dynamics in the country. Fujimorismo still enjoys a majority in Peru’s congress, and he will be constrained by the ideological continuity of the mainstream perspective in Peru. I suspect that like Peru’s previous presidents, Vizcarra believes GDP growth and stability are what is important. That set of priorities usually limits the opportunity for substantive reform.If Vizcarra wants to complete his term in office, he also has to contend with the micro-interests within the Fujimorista alliance. As a result, I don’t think he has much power to push for a broader agenda. Perhaps the most he can do is be the successful version of Kuczynski.I suspect that like Peru’s previous presidents, Vizcarra believes GDP growth and stability are what is important. That set of priorities usually limits the opportunity for substantive reform.Kuczynski was the fourth former president of Peru to be implicated by the ongoing revelations about the Odebrecht/Car Wash scandal. How is Peru similar to or different from other countries in Latin America facing large-scale corruption scandals? What reforms are necessary to reduce corruption in Peru? How are other countries like Brazil reacting to their own corruption scandals, particularly in the context of this year’s “supercycle” of elections around the region? One thing common to the whole region is the economic super-cycle from about 2004–2014. Because of the commodities boom, these countries all of a sudden had a lot of money to invest in big infrastructure projects. The other factor is the institutional context—it is no coincidence that Chile and Uruguay don’t have any important politicians involved in the Odebrecht scandal. Institutional settings such as an independent judiciary or efficient organizations in charge of accountability, such as the Contraloría, seem to matter. These kinds of institutions have clearly not been working in many countries.That takes me to this recurrent theme of not having political parties. Politicians have to raise money for campaigns, but there are no consistent donors for political parties or their candidates, so everybody gives money directly to someone that is going to run as a candidate. Odebrecht understood immediately that that was the system, and they started to give money to many candidates. Of course, some of those candidates ended up becoming presidents.The problem is that receiving campaign money from a donor, even if it is all cash and clearly dirty, is not technically a crime according to Peruvian election rules. It violates administrative laws regarding how campaigns should be run but is not a crime in the formal sense. Not complying with electoral rules is not the same as violating a criminal law.In Brazil, judges uncovered what turned out to be an important mechanism of corruption that included several countries. While we want to have the rule of law and a competent judiciary, now we have also realized that this type of revelation can really harm democracy. Some people have started to say that they were better off with the military, because in the era of Brazil’s military dictatorship, they did not appear to be as big of thieves as the current leadership. On the other hand, many citizens think that only some politicians were caught, and not others. They might think it is great that at least one former president is in jail in Peru and Brazil, but they also suspect that the other politicians were not any better. On the one hand, it’s great that in Latin America powerful people who committed crimes are finally going to jail, but if only one kind of powerful person starts to go to jail, it creates some doubts about how well democracy is working. “Populism, Liberalism, Democracy,” an April 3, 2018 event with William A. Galston and Yascha Mounk.“The End of an Era? Bolivia’s Evo Morales and the Alternation of Power,” a June 23, 2017 event with Raul Peñaranda and Ronald MacLean-Abaroa.Articles on “Latin America’s New Turbulence” in the Journal of Democracy April 2016 issue. Joanna Rohozinska and Vitaliy Shpak assess Ukraine's post-Maidan struggles and...In the January issue of the Journal of Democracy, Miriam...With NED support, the Community Media Network (CMN)...In light of the rise of populist views in the region,...Oct 29, 2014Buzzfeed: How Dictators Use Zombie Election...Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellow Dr. Ladan Boroumand reflected on crucial phases...
#Movement for Human Rights and Freedom in North Korea to Receive 2018 Democracy Award#June 4, 2018#WASHINGTON, DC — Four Korean organizations working to document human rights abuses, empower defectors, and ensure the free flow of information in North Korea will be honored by the National Endowment for Democracy (NED) with the 2018 Democracy Award on June 13.  The four groups represent a larger civil society movement for human rights and democracy in North Korea that will be recognized at a ceremony and reception on Capitol Hill from 5:00 – 7:00 PM in room 1100 of the Longworth House Office Building. Confirmed speakers at the event include Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee Ed Royce (R-CA), and House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi.The 2018 Democracy Award Honorees are:See brief descriptions of each organization and their representatives at the end of this release.Members of Congress confirmed to present the awards are Reps. Michael McCaul (R-TX), Joaquin Castro (D-TX), Stephanie Murphy (D-FL), and Peter Roskam (R-IL).  NED Chairman Andrew H. Card, Jr. will chair the event.NED President Carl Gershman commented on the impact of the honorees’ work saying, “Twenty years ago, NED made its first small grants to groups working to pry open one of the most repressive and closed societies on earth – North Korea. That work has grown and multiplied, becoming a powerful movement that has dramatically changed what the world knows and understands about life inside North Korea, and what North Koreans know about the world beyond their borders.  These innovative and courageous activists give the world hope that human dignity and freedom will someday be restored to the entire Korean peninsula.”NED will also host a morning conference on June 13, “Beyond Pyongyang: Connecting with the People of North Korea” from 8:30 a.m. – noon at its office at 1025 F St, NW, 8th floor, Washington, DC 20004. The agenda features opening remarks by U.S. Ambassador-at-Large for International Religious Freedom Sam Brownback   and U.S. Senator Ed Markey (D-MA), ranking member of the Senate Foreign Relations Asia Subcommittee.  Two panels will feature expert analysis about recent developments with North Korea and the implications for the country’s human rights situation.  The first panel includes former U.S. Ambassador to South Korea Mark Lippert, Jung Pak of the Brookings Instutution, Mike Green of CSIS and Georgetown University, and moderator Roberta Cohen of the U.S. Committee for Human Rights in North Korea.  A second panel moderated by Washington Post columnist Josh Rogin will feature a conversation with the four honorees about their work to engage directly with the people of North Korea, what that work has yielded, and its potential to continue changing North Korea from within. Among the panelists will be Seong-ho Ji, who was praised by President Donald Trump in his 2018 State of the Union address. Other panelists are Sungju Lee of Citizens’ Alliance, Kwang Baek Lee of UMG, and Hubert Younghwan Lee of TJWG.These events are open to the media.  Credentialed journalists must register in advance with NED public affairs by email: press@ned.org.The National Endowment for Democracy is a private, nonprofit, grant-making organization created in 1983 to strengthen democratic institutions around the world.  It is active in more than 90 countries, supporting grassroots, democratic initiatives.  More information about NED and the Democracy Award can be found at www.ned.org.About the 2018 Democracy Award HonoreesCitizens’ Alliance for North Korean Human Rights (NKHR)Now Action & Unity for Human Rights (NAUH)Transitional Justice Working GroupUnification Media Group Seoul-based Transitional Justice Working Group aims...The Honorable Vin Weber testifies at the hearing on...The National Endowment for Democracy’s 2018 Democracy...In November 2017, NED hosted a former high-ranking North Korean diplomat for...
#Grantee Spotlight: Eddie Jarwolo, Founder and Executive Director of Naymote Partners for Democratic Development#May 30, 2018#Two dozen years ago, Eddie Jarwolo was a homeless “street kid,” as his native Liberia was torn apart by a devastating civil war. Now 44, he is remarkably at ease, sitting in front of a wall topped by barbed wire at his home in Monrovia, where he has grabbed a leading role in shaping his country’s future without political office or much money to his name.The founder and executive director of Naymote Partners for Democratic Development, Jarwolo is grooming a new generation of socially conscious, politically active Liberian youth. He matter-of-factly tells me that his organization’s grass-roots activism helped contribute to the West African nation’s first peaceful, democratic transfer of power in decades late last year. The work didn’t end there.Liberia’s continued lack of transparency poses a...In order to contribute to the spread of correct information...With NED support, the Community Media Network (CMN)...Since its launch in March 2009, NED grantee La Silla Vacía (The Empty Seat)...
#Issue Brief: How Disinformation Impacts Politics and Publics#May 29, 2018#TWEET | SHARE | PDFDisinformation—the use of half-truth and non-rational argument to manipulate public opinion in pursuit of political objectives—is a growing threat to the public sphere in countries around the world. The challenge posed by Russian disinformation has attracted significant attention in the United States and Europe; over time, observers have noted its role in “hybrid warfare,” its use to degrade public trust in media and state institutions, and its ability to amplify social division, resentment, and fear.But Moscow is merely the most prominent purveyor of disinformation, not its sole source. Political actors around the world, ranging in size from state agencies to individuals, have found ways to exploit the economics of digital advertising and the fast-paced nature of the modern information ecosystem for their political advantage. Growing appreciation of the problem’s scale invites a shift in frame: from national security threat from a discrete actor to a broader appreciation of political-economic weaknesses in the contemporary information space.Disinformation has a wider variety of purposes, in a wider variety of settings, than is commonly appreciated. In the short term, it can be used to distract from an issue, obscure the truth, or to inspire its consumers to take a certain course of action. In the long-term, disinformation can be part of a strategy to shape the information environment in which individuals, governments, and other actors form beliefs and make decisions.Disinformation has a wider variety of purposes, in a wider variety of settings, than is commonly appreciated.In the short term, disinformation can be utilized reactively by different entities: for example, when Russian-backed fighters in Eastern Ukraine shot down a commercial airliner, Russian state media went into overdrive proposing multiple, often conflicting alternative explanations for the plane’s crash.Disinformation’s applications have also been evident in Syria, where Russian diplomats, media, and intelligence services have falsified evidence, pushed misleading narratives, and spread falsehoods relating to the role of Russia’s airstrikes, as well as to obscure evidence of the Syrian government’s use of chemical weapons.Another common technique is to react to a crisis by flooding the information space and drowning out discussion. After opposition protests broke out in Syria during 2011, newly-created Twitter accounts began harassing Syrian users, and social media researches allege that the Assad regime paid a public relations firm to flood opposition hashtags with photos of nature scenery and sports scores. Online trolling, harassment, and distraction—especially by highly active automated accounts—are a key component of the modern disinformation purveyor’s toolkit. These techniques push independent voices out of public spaces and are sometimes considered a new form of political censorship. The Chinese Communist Party (CCP) was an early pioneer of this approach: for at least a decade, Beijing has deployed a “fifty-cent party” (apocryphally named for posters’ going rate per post) to “astroturf” support for the government and derail online political conversations that could spark mass mobilization. Recent estimates suggest this effort encompasses two million individuals, many of them state employees, and produces nearly 450 million social media posts per year.Over time, similar approaches became a common aspect of authoritarian information manipulation and were later amplified through automation. In the early to mid-2000s, the Russian government began recruiting human commenters before later adopting the use of automated “bot” accounts. One study suggests that on Twitter more than half of tweets in Russian are produced by automated accounts. Aiming to avoid detection, many disinformation campaigns now avail themselves of accounts that are partially automated, partially controlled by human users; these are often referred to as cyborg or sock puppet accounts.In recent years, the use of bots and trolls to shape online discussion has become so common across countries that it could be considered a widely exploited bug in the digital public square extending far beyond conflict or authoritarian settings. In Mexico, paid political consultants orchestrated the theft of campaign secrets and the large scale distribution of disinformation to voters. Such activity continues to this day, as pro-government accounts swarm political hashtags, threaten the lives of activists, and marginalize protesters.In the Philippines, where the public square faces significant threats both online and off, interview-based research has explored a sophisticated “underground” public relations industry in which digital strategists, social media influencers, and paid commenters compete to deliver their clients the greatest degree of control over political narratives on the internet. In a stroke of market innovation, the subcontracting of digital disinformation in the Philippines has tied the financial and career incentives of competing freelancers to the objectives of national political parties, to devastating effect. The effectiveness of ‘reactive’ disinformation is limited by the unpredictability of real-world events. While it can offer those who use it a lifeline in times of crisis, reactive disinformation is by definition a response to unexpected, uncontrollable, or undesirable events and therefore generally used by those in disadvantageous strategic positions. Used proactively, disinformation provides much greater potential to move audiences to action, shape or confuse public understanding, and influence political events.However, it does not provide a blank canvas on which to work. Effective disinformation campaigns usually draw on preexisting divides within target societies and produce content for which there is societal demand. Disinformation is at its most dangerous when amplifying existing political beliefs and divisions as opposed to introducing new beliefs or narratives into the public sphere. It is effective in doing so in part due to low trust in media and in part due to cognitive biases that make many consumers more likely to believe content that confirms their beliefs, to prefer partisan cheerleading over the conclusions of fact-checkers, and to share content that makes them angry or afraid. Research into the impact of social media use on political polarization is ongoing, but at a minimum suggests that the emergence of social media platforms as news sources has diminished the power of traditional “gatekeepers” of news and information. In turn, social media seems to have increased the social and political influence of a voracious subset of news consumers engaged in “motivated reasoning”—the selected interpretation of information to justify one’s preexisting beliefs, stances, or desires. These factors, combined with the speed at which information spreads online, create ideal conditions for disinformation campaigns.Effective disinformation campaigns usually draw on preexisting divides within target societies and produce content for which there is societal demand.Proactive disinformation campaigns can achieve real-world impact by influencing the actions of its consumers. A prominent example comes from Germany’s 2016 “Lisa case,” which ignited nationwide debate over the country’s resettlement of Middle Eastern refugees and offered Moscow an opportunity to stoke divisions within Germany. Lisa, a thirteen year-old Russian-German girl, alleged that two migrant men kidnapped and raped her; the allegations were later proven to be untrue, but not before Russian state media actively spread the story and the Russian Foreign Minister publicly accused Berlin of a cover up. In Germany, thousands protested the government’s handling of the case. By using media and diplomatic resources to promote a false story at a time of rising German anti-migrant sentiment, Moscow sought to exploit domestic German political divides to encourage mass demonstrations and damage the German government politically.Digital disinformation often promotes xenophobic sentiment, and hate speech is common. In India, far-right religious figures used messaging applications to spread false claims about religious minorities, sparking communal violence. In Indonesia, political and religious leaders have decried the spread of hate speech and rumors over social media, which played a pivotal role in the Jakarta mayoral election.Mass media have been used to spread disinformation and hate speech in the past, and have played a key role in modern genocides. Social media is now playing a similar role in contemporary atrocities: in Burma, for instance, ultranationalist Buddhist monks have used social media to mobilize supporters and instigate violence against the Rohingya, a persecuted Muslim minority group. Often, disinformation aims to influence citizens’ decisions to vote (or to abstain from voting). The use of disinformation around elections is probably only slightly younger than representative democracy itself, but the reach, speed, and low cost of disseminating disinformation over social media has amplified this problem.The actors involved are often subnational political figures or organizations, although state organs are sometimes complicit. In South Korea, for example, the role of state-spread disinformation during the country’s 2012 presidential election was exposed after an investigation found that the National Intelligence Service generated more than 1.2 million Twitter messages supporting now-impeached South Korean President Park Geun-hye (or, as is often the case with disinformation, denigrating her rival).The 2017 Kenyan elections offer a valuable case study in the widespread use of domestically sourced disinformation in an electoral context. As in the Philippine case cited above, rival political factions created sophisticated digital operations, conscripting influential social media personalities, paid commentators, and armies of bot accounts. Digital advertising techniques amplified the spread of hate speech and disinformation targeting political opponents. Hoax websites imitating real news outlets produced disinformation at an industrial scale, with one study finding that nine in ten Kenyans had seen false information about the election online, and 87 percent of respondents believing that information to be deliberately false. These techniques—not unique to Kenya—proved dangerous at an exceptionally contentious political moment in a country where the previous elections led to bloodshed. While disinformation frequently originates from domestic sources, some authoritarian governments increasingly use disinformation to influence elections beyond their borders. The Russian Federation stands out as the paramount example. Even a partial list of elections where Russian-produced or -supported disinformation has featured includes the French, German, and American elections in 2016 and 2017; the 2018 Czech presidential election; and the 2017 vote on Catalonian secession from Spain. In each of these cases, Moscow used a combination of state-owned international news outlets, smaller news sites linked to Moscow, and automated social media accounts, sometimes in tandem with leaks of stolen documents and communications.It can be tremendously difficult to estimate the total effect of these simultaneous approaches, especially since international disinformation operations often imitate—or even promote—material produced by domestic actors. Sometimes, disinformation may flow the other way as it migrates from foreign sources to mainstream domestic news outlets.Moscow is not the only actor in this space. While Beijing’s international media strategy differs substantially from Moscow’s, there is evidence it has experimented with disinformation in Taiwanese politics as part of a long-standing policy regarding unification between Taiwan and the People’s Republic of China.Political actors have used disinformation for their benefit for millennia. However, the velocity and volume of disinformation in the contemporary information space seems to have amplified its effectiveness and left many members of the public increasingly angry, fearful, or disoriented.Not every disinformation campaign is linked to a specific event such as an election. Disinformation can also be used to alter the broader information space in which people discuss issues, form beliefs, and make political decisions; it is sometimes deployed to promote a larger narrative over time or to degrade civic discourse by promoting division or cynicism.Political actors have used disinformation for their benefit for millennia. However, the velocity and volume of disinformation in the contemporary information space seems to have amplified its effectiveness and left many members of the public increasingly angry, fearful, or disoriented. This, in turn, leaves publics even more vulnerable to future manipulation, resulting in a cycle of declining public trust in objective sources of information which some analysts call “truth decay.”Russian disinformation provides an instructive case study: at home and abroad, it draws on the principle that there is no such thing as objective truth. This allows Moscow to deploy multiple narratives and conspiracy theories when seeking to undermine public confidence in Western institutions, including claims that European politicians support Nazism in Ukraine, that the German government will pay for refugees and their “harems” to migrate to Europe, and that NATO planes spray mind-control chemicals over Poland. In addition to their explicit messages about Western wrongdoing, each of these stories implicitly suggests that Western media are concealing the truth from the public.Consumers do not necessarily need to be persuaded by these stories—the introduction of doubt or anxiety may be enough to inspire distrust or political disengagement. In the case of the story about German taxpayers funding migrant harems, Moscow drew upon anti-migrant sentiment and resistance to German refugee policy to deepen political divides—not for the sake of inspiring immediate action, but because a divided and more fragile European Union serves Moscow’s geopolitical interests.As with many of the applications of disinformation described above, it remains a mistake to believe this approach is only or even primarily adopted by state actors; subnational political actors, business interests, and other parties also draw from these practices. An example comes from South Africa, where wealthy industrialists with close ties to South African politicians hired a British PR firm to distract from growing political corruption by inflaming race relations. By combining media outlets owned by the industrialists with a “wildly successful” social media campaign, the firm temporarily distracted from an ongoing process of state capture by manipulating social divides over racial inequality.The disinformation challenge is about more than authoritarian propaganda or PR techniques. Longstanding vulnerabilities in human cognition, combined with new and emerging technology’s impact on the information environment, allow for bad actors around the world to pursue political gains at the expense of democratic political discourse. The search for solutions must start by recognizing that the challenge is global and structural. Brief prepared by Dean Jackson, International Forum for Democratic Studies. The author thanks Christina Apelseth for her research assistance.  Dean Jackson’s February 2018 Q&A with Dipayan Ghosh on the “Commercial Drivers of Precision Propaganda.”Dean Jackson’s February 2018 Q&A with Maria Ressa on “Digital Disinformation and Philippine Democracy in the Balance.”“Distinguishing Disinformation from Propaganda, ‘Fake News,’ and Misinformation,” an International Forum issue brief by Dean Jackson.“Can Democracy Survive the Internet?” an April 2017 Journal of Democracy article by Nathaniel Persily.“The Disinformation Crisis and the Erosion of Truth,” by Dean Jackson for the Power 3.0 blog.“The Authoritarian Capture of Social Media,” by Peter Kreko for the Power 3.0 blog.Dean Jackson’s November 2017 Q&A with Jonathon Morgan on “Tracking Digital Disinformation.”Dean Jackson’s July 2017 Q&A with Phil Howard on “Computational Propaganda’s Challenge to Democracy.” Image Credit: Alexander Sviridov/Shutterstock Forum director Shanthi Kalathil reviews Nadege Rolland's "China's Eurasian Century?...International Forum for Democratic Studies Executive...Kenneth Wollack Presentation of NDI's Harriman Award...Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellow Agon Maliqi discussed...The October 2016 issue features seven essays on the...What are the key challenges facing India as the world's largest democracy marks...
#Crimean Tatar Hero Mustafa Dzhemilev Honored by NED with the Democracy Service Medal#May 25, 2018#The National Endowment for Democracy (NED) has awarded the Democracy Service Medal to the revered Crimean Tatar leader Mustafa Dzhemilev in recognition of his lifelong struggle to defend the rights of the Crimean Tatars.  NED president Carl Gershman presented the medal at an event on Thursday, May 24, 2018 at the Endowment’s Washington, DC office.“In recognition of his spiritual strength and devotion to the cause of democracy, and for his unyielding defense of the human dignity and national integrity of his people, the Crimean Tatars, the National Endowment for Democracy is proud to honor Mustafa Dzhemilev with its Democracy Service Medal,” said Gershman.Dzhemilev, a renowned human rights activist and Soviet dissident, campaigned for the right of return of the Crimean Tatars following their deportation under Stalin. As a result, he spent 15 years in prison camps in the USSR and undertook what remains the longest hunger strike on record – 300 days. Since 2014, Dzhemilev has served as Commissioner of the President of Ukraine for the Affairs of Crimean Tatars.“I believe that this medal belongs to the entire Crimean Tatar nation, a nation which is very courageous and brave, which managed for decades to resist such a strong superpower, and which now is also resisting this audacious, vile, cruel aggressor,” said Dzhemilev. “Our country, our people, badly needs solidarity and support these days…Thank you from the bottom of my heart.”Since the Russian invasion of Ukraine and the annexation of Crimea, Dzhemilev and the Crimean Tatars face renewed persecution. The Russian annexation has been accompanied by numerous human rights violations, including beatings and kidnappings of civic activists. Crimean Tatar activists such as Dzhemilev have been singled out for persecution.The award presentation was a moving conclusion to a program focused on the historic and current plight of Crimea and the Tatars.  Jorgan Andrews, Director of the US Department of State Office of Eastern European Affairs made remarks reiterating US support for Ukraine and rejection of the Russian occupation of Crimea. “the American people stand in solidarity with Ukraine, the people of Crimea, and the Crimean Tatars,” said Andrews. “ We continue to bear witness to the horrific violations of human rights and other injustices committed by the Russian occupiers in Crimea.  We look forward to the day when Crimea can be returned to Ukrainian control and its residents can live in peace.”Following Andrews remarks, the documentary Mustafa, produced by NED grantee CrimeaSOS, was shown.  The biographical film was followed by a conversation between Dzhemilev and Paula Dobriansky, former Under Secretary of State for Global Affairs and current Senior Fellow at the Future of Diplomacy Project at Harvard University’s Kennedy School.  A recording of the event is available on the NED website.The Board of Directors of the National Endowment for Democracy created its Democracy Service Medal to recognize individuals who have made significant contributions to the progress of democracy around the world. It has been presented to more than 30 outstanding individuals who have demonstrated through personal commitment, their dedication to the advancement of freedom and human rights, and to the building of democratic institutions.The National Endowment for Democracy is a private, nonprofit, grant-making organization created in 1983 to strengthen democratic institutions around the world.  It is active in more than 90 countries, supporting grassroots, democratic initiatives.Contact:  Jane Riley Jacobsen (202) 378-9604 or jane@ned.org.Remarks by Carl Gershman at Voices from the Congo: The Road Ahead.Vin Weber's remarks at the presentation of NED's Democracy...Read remarks by Carl Gershman during Democracy Serivce...2007 Democracy Service MedalPresented to: Mort Abramowitz, ...The National Endowment for Democracy is proud to honor two of these voices –...
#World Movement for Democracy to Honor Resilient Activists from Africa, China, and the Philippines at Ninth Global Assembly on May 9, 2018#May 9, 2018#Contact:  Jane Riley Jacobsen, jane@ned.org +1 (202) 378-9604WASHINGTON, DC –The World Movement for Democracy will honor three exceptional groups of human rights and democracy activists with the presentation of Democracy Courage Tributes at the closing dinner of the Ninth Global Assembly in Dakar, Senegal on May 9, 2018.The honorees are:The Democracy Courage Tributes are a highlight of each Global Assembly and are given at the John B. Hurford Memorial Dinner, which is sponsored by the Hurford Foundation. The Tributes give special recognition to the extraordinary efforts of groups and movements working under particularly difficult circumstances.The World Movement will recognize Advocates for the Rule of Law in Africa for holding government leaders accountable and protecting the integrity of democracy in South Africa, Kenya, and Liberia. Thulisile Madonsela, the former Public Protector of South Africa (2009-2016), who played an important role in triggering the corruption investigation against former President Jacob Zuma, will accept the Tribute.In memory of Li Baiguang, one of hundreds of courageous human rights lawyers who have faced persecution for defending human rights in China since the 2015 “709” crackdown, the World Movement will honor Human Rights Lawyers in China. Jin Bianling, wife of Jiang Tianyong, a political prisoner abducted and detained for his defense of religious minorities and other vulnerable communities, will accept the Tribute.The World Movement will also honor the Nightwatchers: Photojournalists in the Philippines, who have documented hundreds of victims of extra-judicial killings in the Philippines. Raffy Lerma and Ezra Acayan, two Nightwatchers who have dedicated their careers to capturing these images since President Duterte’s war on drugs began in 2016, will accept this Tribute.DATE: Wednesday, May 9, 2018TIME: 6:30 p.m.LOCATION: Dakar, Senegal. Details to be provided upon accreditation.This event is on-the-record and open to press. To request accreditation or for additional details, please email yelenav@ned.org. Location and further timing details will be provided upon confirmation of accreditation.The National Endowment for Democracy is proud to honor...NED will host legendary Belarusian rock musician and...Brian Joseph has been named vice president for Asia, Middle East & North Africa,...
#2018 World Press Freedom Day: KEEPING POWER IN CHECK:  MEDIA, JUSTICE AND THE RULE OF LAW#May 3, 2018#The National Endowment for Democracy is proud to support activists like Rafael Marques de Morais, an Angolan journalist and human rights defender focused on investigating government corruption. His organization, Maka Angola, is a long-time grantee of the NED.  In May 2018, he will face trial again for exposing a shady land deal by former Angolan Attorney General João Maria de Sousa in 2016. If convicted, Rafael faces up to four years and six months in prison. “The theme of the 2018 celebration highlights the importance of an enabling legal environment for press freedom, and gives special attention to the role of an independent judiciary in ensuring legal guarantees for press freedom and the prosecution of crimes against journalists.” – The United NationsOn August 4–6, 2014, NED seized the opportunity provided by the U.S.-Africa...It is with great sadness that we at the National Endowment...How the Internet is governed and develops in the future...The National Endowment for Democracy is using its 2017...Join CIMA on Tuesday, February 28, as Schiffrin leads...Activist Passy Mubalama examined how the current political crisis affects women’s...
#Democracy Research News April 2018#April 30, 2018#“Sharp Power: Rising Authoritarian Influence” – A new report published by four NDRI members – the International Forum for Democratic Studies (U.S.), CADAL (Argentina), the Institute for Public Affairs (Slovakia), and the Institute of Public Affairs (Poland) – examines Chinese and Russian influence in Argentina, Peru, Slovakia, and Poland. The report finds that a clear reconceptualization of “soft power” is needed to adequately describe authoritarian influence activities. Such influence is better described as “sharp power,” in that it pierces, penetrates, or perforates the information and political environments in the targeted countries. The report has since received global media coverage, including the cover of The Economist.NDRI Welcomes Nine New Members –   The Network of Democracy Research Institutes is pleased to welcome nine new members: Institute of Economic Affairs (Ghana), AcaMedia (Czech Republic), Association for International Affairs (Czech Republic), Center for Euro-Atlantic Studies  (Serbia), Political Capital  (Hungary), Prague Security Studies Institute  (Czech Republic), Center for Social Sciences (Georgia), Centre to Combat Corruption & Cronyism (Malaysia), and Instituto Atuação  (Brazil).V-Dem Institute Releases Call for Papers – The V-Dem Institute is holding a research workshop on “Democracy in Reverse: Patterns of Autocratization in Eastern Europe and Eurasia” at the UPTAKE research consortium in Estonia on October 19, 2018. The Institute invites paper proposals (between 300-500 words) on all topics related to autocratization in the post-communist region. Proposals should be sent by May 15 to: Prof. Vello Pettai, Johan Skytte Institute of Political Studies, University of Tartu, vello.pettai@ut.ee. Stanford University’s Center on Democracy, Development, and Rule of Law (U.S.) published a working paper on “Do Fair Elections Increase the Responsiveness of Politicians?,” in which the author argues that “higher-integrity elections incentivize incumbents to exert more effort to satisfy citizens’ demand for constituency service.”The International Forum for Democratic Studies published the April 2018 Journal of Democracy, which includes a cluster of articles on “China in Xi’s New Era” that examines China’s internal changes in the wake of the 19th Party Congress, its expanding global ambitions, and its influence operations from Canberra to the Czech Republic. Also available is a pair of articles on the impact of the rise of populism for liberal democracies, as well as individual studies of Kenya and corruption in Brazil.Power 3.0: Understanding Modern Authoritarian Influence: a new blog run by the International Forum explores how savvy authoritarian governments survive and thrive in a globalized information age, and the ways that democracies are contending with this challenge. Afrobarometer’s 2017 national survey in Ghana shows that most Ghanaians support efforts to wipe out illegal small-scale mining and approve of the government’s performance on this issue; overwhelmingly reject mob “justice” and the lawless activities of political vigilante groups; and strongly endorse the rule of law in Ghana but see important inequities in how the law is applied.In Nigeria, Afrobarometer‘s 2017 survey indicates that public perceptions of the government’s fight against corruption have improved dramatically. Perceived corruption in the public sector, however, remains high, with the police perceived as the most corrupt and least trusted by citizens. Although most Nigerians think they can make a difference in the fight against graft, many still fear retaliations should they report an incident of corruption.The latest briefing paper by the Center for Democratic Development (CDD-Ghana), “Strengthening Stakeholder Participation in Decentralized Planning Systems in Ghana,” by Dr. Franklin Oduro and Paul Osei Kuffour, argues that a major feature of Ghana’s decentralization and devolution process is the increased involvement of local communities, the citizenry, and civil society.A briefing paper by the Center for Democracy and Development West Africa (Nigeria), “Countering Violent Extremism and Terrorism in Burkina Faso” finds that extremism is on the rise in the country due, in part, to rising unemployment and poverty levels, particularly among youth, who are more vulnerable to extremist ideologies. A lack of trust in government and security forces makes the fight against these ideologies difficult to tackle.In “The Effect of Elections on Kenya’s Economy,” the Institute of Economic Affairs (Kenya) finds that the periods before Kenyan elections cause high levels of anxiety among economic actors in the country, who think that this period exposes Kenya’s fragility. The uncertainty results in lower GDP growth rates during many election years. Researchers from members of the Asia Democracy Research Network, including King Prajadhipok’s Institute (Thailand), the International Center for Innovation, Transformation and Excellence in Governance (Philippines), Jinnah Institute (Pakistan), and East Asia Institute (South Korea), published a special report, “Policy Research and Policy Outcomes Report on Gender Equality in Asia: Comparative Studies,” that evaluates the current state of gender equality in the region by studying the strengths and weaknesses of each country’s mechanisms in terms of laws and regulations, public participation, and public governance.Researchers from members of the Asia Democracy Research Network, including the Centre for Policy Alternatives (Sri Lanka), Asian Barometer, and East Asia Institute (South Korea), also published “Civic Space in Asia: Emerging Issues and Policy Lessons from Six Asian Countries.” The report examines evidence of shrinking civic space in Sri Lanka, Burma, Taiwan, Pakistan, the Philippines, and India, and the successes and failures each country has experienced in protecting it.Stanford University’s Center on Democracy, Development, and Rule of Law‘s “Thailand’s Collective Action Coalition Against Corruption” examines a private sector initiative, the Collective Action Coalition Against Corruption, to fight deep-seated corruption in Thailand.The Centre to Combat Corruption and Cronyism‘s (Malaysia) report, “Langkawi: Good Governance, The Pillar to a Successful Tourism Industry” focuses on issues afflicting governance and the sustainability of Langkawi’s tourism industry.A study by the Pakistan Institute of Legislative Development and Transparency, “Future of Democracy and Civil-Military Relations in Pakistan – Developments in 2017,” provides an objective analysis of recent developments affecting Pakistan’s democratic order and civil-military relations. The Access to Information Programme (Bulgaria) recently presented the results of its 2018 Active Transparency Rating, which aims to  evaluate how executive bodies fulfill their obligations for proactive disclosure of information online under the Access to Public Information Act in order to increase their active transparency.The Association for International Affairs (Czech Republic) analyzed more than 7,700 media outlets and interviewed agenda setters and insiders to produce a major new report, “Central Europe for Sale: The Politics of China’s Influence,” that examines Chinese influence in the Czech Republic, Hungary, and Slovakia. The Prague Security Studies Institute (PSSI) published a new study, “Chinese Investments in Czech Republic and Poland,” which analyzes Chinese investments in the Czech Republic and Poland.The Prague Security Studies Institute published a series of papers analyzing the impact of Russian investment in strategic economic sectors, including gas, nuclear power, banking, and defense, in the Czech Republic, Germany, Poland, and Slovakia.PSSI also analyzed the way disinformation platforms influenced the 2018 Czech presidential elections in “Czech Presidential Elections 2018 and the Role of Disinformation.”Scholars affiliated with Political Capital (Hungary) published The Hungarian Far Right – Social Demand, Political Supply, and International Context, which examines far-right politics in Hungary and its two main players, the radical right Jobbik and populist right Fidesz parties.Political Capital also published a new report, “The Year of Rearrangement – The Populist Right and the Far-Right in Contemporary Hungary,” that explores the dynamics of the relationship between Fidesz and Jobbik, examines the electoral base of both parties, gives an overview of the annual activities of the most significant far-right organizations, and elaborates on the local politics of Jobbik.Central European University’s Roma Civil Monitor (Hungary) released civil society monitoring reports on the status of Roma and the impact of mainstream education policies on Roma populations in the Czech Republic, Romania, and Slovakia. The Center for Opening and Development in Latin America (Argentina) published “Cuba Before its Third Universal Periodic Review of Human Rights,” which argues for the importance of Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Peru, and Uruguay to participate in Cuba’s next Universal Periodic Review to support human rights in the region. “Who Decides the Cuban Elections?” argues that the institutionalization of the “revolution” has left Cuba with an electoral bureaucracy that suffocates popular sovereignty, allowing its citizens no room for freedom of political expression. The Lebanese Center for Policy Studies published a policy brief on “Understanding Refugee Politics in Lebanon and Calls for Repatriation,” which outlines Lebanon’s current refugee and migration policies and and suggests a legal framework of action for improving refugee policies on the local level. Democracy Research News is the electronic newsletter of the Network of Democracy Research Institutes (NDRI), a membership association of institutions that conduct and publish research on democracy and democratic development. It is one of several functional networks associated with the World Movement for Democracy. To submit comments or to inquire about joining the Network, please write to Melissa Aten at melissaa@ned.org.Zora Bútorová is a resident scholar of the Institute for Public Affairs, a...Michael Bratton conducts research on democracy in Africa...The July 2018 issue of Democracy Research News highlights...Democracy Research News is the electronic newsletter...The September 2018 edition of the Forum newsletter...Michael Coppedge is professor of political science at the University of Notre...
#Journal of Democracy April 2018 Issue: China in Xi’s New Era#April 19, 2018# Is Xi Jinping returning China to a Mao-style personalist dictatorship? How is China under Xi exerting its authoritarian influence in its neighborhood—and around the world?In the April 2018 issue of the Journal of Democracy, a set of eight articles on “China in Xi’s new era” examines the country’s internal changes in the wake of the 19th Party Congress, its expanding global ambitions, and its influence operations from Canberra to the Czech Republic:For further discussion about China in Xi’s new era, read blog posts related to this article cluster on the International Forum’s Power 3.0 blog.Populism, Liberalism, and DemocracyTwo insightful essays delve into the roots and implications of populism’s global ascent. William A. Galston explores populism’s logic and considers how liberal democracies can respond; Yascha Mounk argues that populism’s rise may, in part, reflect popular frustration with “undemocratic liberalism.”In addition, in the April 2018 issue:For the complete Table of Contents, visit www.journalofdemocracy.org.Scholar and civil-military relations expert Aurel Croissant discusses explanations...Please join the Council of the Americas, Americas Quarterly,...Read the Challenge of Resurgent Authoritarianism: Can...The April 2018 edition of the Forum newsletter explores...The October 2017 issue features six essays on Russia's...As we celebrated World Press Freedom Day, the Center for International Media...
#China in Xi’s New Era: Redefining Development by Shanthi Kalathil in the Journal of Democracy#April 15, 2018#In the April 2018 issue of the Journal of Democracy, International Forum for Democratic Studies Director Shanthi Kalathil discusses how, over the last decade, China has been working to reshape the norms, architecture, and practice of development assistance. It has emerged as an alternative source of infrastructure financing for many countries of the global South, and has become an institutional player through its Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB) and New Development Bank (NDB). Nearly all these advances are entwined with the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), a vast infrastructure-building, trade, and investment effort. Even as the wider international-development community has moved toward treating certain principles of democratic governance as integral to development, China’s government has been using the BRI to push the notion that economic growth without political liberalization or accountability is not only possible, but advantageous. As the BRI increasingly shapes the world’s conversation on foreign assistance, a collision between mainstream development and China’s authoritarian system seems inevitable. Image Credit: Robin Nieuwenkamp/ShutterstockRead remarks by NED President Carl Gershman at the conference on  “Democratization,...Please join the Council of the Americas, Americas Quarterly,...Apr. 20, 2015Worth Reading: Journal of Democracy...Dr. Ghia Nodia of the Ilia Chavchavadze State University...The International Forum for Democratic Studies asked five leading experts about...
#Forum Q&A: Lilia Shevtsova on Russia as A Global Challenge#April 13, 2018#TWEET | SHARE | PDFLilia Shevtsova is a Russian political scientist currently based at Chatham House in London as an associate fellow. Her career has included stints at the Brookings Institution, Carnegie Moscow Center, Georgetown University, and Sciences Po, where she has conducted extensive research and writing on issues relating to postcommunist transformation, democratic transitions, and relations between Russia’s foreign policy. Dr. Shevtsova’s work has been featured in numerous publications, including Foreign Policy, the Financial Times, the Washington Post, Le Monde, and the Journal of Democracy. She is a member of the editorial boards of the American Interest and the Journal of Democracy. She is currently a Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellow at the National Endowment for Democracy in Washington, D.C. Her April 17, 2018, presentation at the Endowment focused on “Russia as a Global Challenge.”In March 2018, Vladimir Putin was credited with an electoral victory, giving him a fourth term as Russian president and making him Russia’ paramount leader for nearly two decades. The Kremlin’s growing internationalism, including election interference in the democracies, has caught the democracies off-guard. An important part of this internationalism is Russian transnational kleptocracy, which has the effect of corroding democratic institutions as a recent cluster of articles in the Journal of Democracy pointed out.Melissa Aten of the International Forum for Democratic Studies spoke with Lilia Shevtsova about these and other implications of Russia’s domestic and international policies. (This interview has been condensed and edited for clarity. The views and opinions expressed here do not necessarily reflect those of the National Endowment for Democracy.) Melissa Aten: Now that Vladimir Putin will serve as president for a fourth term, what do you think Russia’s trajectory will be, both domestically and internationally?Lilia Shevtsova: It seems to me that that Russia is entering a kind of historic pause. Let’s call it the interregnum. Which means that the old system—and everybody understands this, at least in Russia—the old system is obsolete; it’s so archaic. It doesn’t work at all. It cannot promote any kind of growth and development, and it cannot secure stability as well. And in a sense, President Putin is presiding over his own last chapter, over his political agony, which is kind of a bitter, ironic paradise.The Kremlin is trying to preserve the status quo by portraying Russia as a “besieged fortress” with an  outside enemy to blame for its problems, and to some degree this has brought some results. It gave the president a kind of legitimacy, but this approach will only work for a short time. We should ask to what extent Russians, both the elite and the population, are ready to live inside this fortress, especially when you take into account that the Russian elite–the oligarchs and the ruling class and the members of the government–would love to be in Londongrad to become personally integrated into the West. Will they be ready to leave the besieged fortress? What about the population? There is a lot of misunderstanding about its patience to be subjects of this repressive power.The polls tell us the real story. Fifty-seven to 60 percent of Russians would agree that Russia is a superpower, but they would prefer the superpower not be an arrogant, predatory power—rather a power that would guarantee them well-being and a peaceful life. Only 19 percent of Russians believe that Russia should fight and contradict the U.S., and only 14 percent would like Russia to be an aggressive power in the territory of the post-Soviet space.Putin could use another gimmick: the anti-corruption struggle, just like his predecessors including Stalin did. This would mean that he would address two problems: cleansing the rotten, demoralized, high-echelon of the elite and responding to the demands of society for justice. The trouble is that the demoralized, corrupted elite cannot produce this change.Internationally, I would say that Putin has brought Russia into a kind of a trap, and he doesn’t know where the exit is. What kind of trap? He brought Russia into confrontation with the West, but this contradicts the very essence of the traditional Russian model of survival—by using the West, by integrating the Russian elite into the West. Both sides, Russia and the West, will be trying to look for a new balance between deterrence on the one hand and dialogue on the other, without knowing where the exit to much more normal relations will be. Hence, we could make an analogy: the international situation as an Alfred Hitchcock movie, where everybody feels that there is a kind of threat looming ahead, not knowing where it will come from and when.  Unless there is some formidable shock—a geopolitical catastrophe, for example—that will force both sides to really look for an exit from this confrontation, it is difficult to see how it will end.For the time being, the West and Russia are playing the game of who winks first. Neither side knows how to de-escalate, and this is the problem. The West should know how to de-escalate, because the West has a tradition and culture of consensus, of compromise-seeking, of negotiations. In the Russian system, the ruling elite does not know how to backtrack because backtracking for them would mean suicide. They cannot lose the image of being a great power without also losing power.Both sides, Russia and the West, will be trying to look for a new balance between deterrence on the one hand and dialogue on the other, without knowing where the exit to much more normal relations will be.In previous conversations, I have heard you describe what you call the “Russian survival triad”: the desire to be inside the West, with the West, and against the West. Can you elaborate on that, and discuss how it relates to Western strategy toward Russia?The collapse of the Soviet Union brought postmodernity with globalization, which means the borders between fair and unfair, truth and fake, war and peace have become fuzzy. This has become the best environment for this Russian triad of being with the West, outside of the West, and inside of the West—to incorporate personally into Western political and economic systems and to insulate Russian society from Western impact.  This was effective until Putin made this absolutely disastrous decision for himself, kicking over the global chess board with the 2014 annexation of Crimea, and the story of happiness ended.This model isn’t totally new for Russia, because Peter the Great and Stalin also pursued modernization at the expense of the West—using Western means, Western ideas. Probably the most elaborate example of this triad has been German Ostpolitik. Ostpolitik was formed by the West German and Soviet elite in the 1970’s, built around the “Red Bargain” with West Germany and the Soviet Union. The essence of this bargain was gas in exchange for a pipeline. This is when West Germany became a promoter of Soviet interests within the NATO alliance. The whole idea was based on the illusion that the more the West embraced the Soviet elite and the Soviet Union, the closer you came to the Western dream of transforming the Soviet Union. Well, the Soviet Union collapsed before it was transformed, which, by the way, didn’t erase the new edition of Ostpolitik—they still are dreaming about that. Germany is still partially accommodating the Kremlin and the Russian elite in the hopes this will change their politics. Well, good luck.Ostpolitik, and this policy of accommodation, was a very important element of the survival of the Russian system. At the same time, this triad has helped create something that we could call the “Manafort Machine,” where one part of the lobbyist machine of the United States allegedly promotes the interests of the corrupted Ukrainian regime. The same machine exists in all major European countries: in the UK, Germany, and France. This machine has become an element that, in fact, undermines liberal democracy, discredits liberal ideas, and undermines the whole idea that the West could be a role model in other transitional countries or autocratic societies. You cannot be a role model if we in fact can seduce and bribe you.So the problem is to what extent the West will be ready after this confrontation to return to its normative principles, to what extent can the Western establishment again become the role model for the rest. Unless we have this answer, we cannot answer the question of why liberal democracy is collapsing and fading around the world. I have also heard you say that the Russian political elite are eliminating the state, as a method of survival. What do you mean by that?We currently have a very cynical and smart political regime that in fact has survived by demolishing not only the Russian liberal minority and modernist part of society, but, unexpectedly for themselves, the pillars of the Russian traditional state as well.There are three elements of this terminator machine. First, by holding fake elections, they discredit this very important means of legitimacy. The Kremlin leaves society without any means of legitimating authority. The second element of this terminator machine is the fact that the current regime, by confronting the West, is leaving Russia without financial resources to refinance the Russian corporate and state debt, and without technological ammunition for the oil and gas industry, and this is the source of Russia’s existence. Third, by breaking international rules (the war in Ukraine, interference in Syria, meddling in American, German, and French political life), they are bringing on the country’s demise.  In the end, not only does the current regime undermine and bury the modernist minority, the law of unintended consequences undermines the traditional pattern of the state’s existence. Russia has been active in many of the world’s hotspots: Syria, Venezuela, North Korea.  What motivates Russia’s involvement? Does it have the strength to continue to be so active in these types of conflicts in the near and long term?For starters, Russia is involved in two wars– in Ukraine and Syria–and the Kremlin has no clue as to how get out of them without losing face. Indeed, Moscow tries to keep its presence in other parts of the world, including Venezuela, North Korea and even South Africa.  The Kremlin tries to preserve the Great Power status that it needs for domestic legitimacy, but one should not exaggerate Russia’s global impact. Expansion has become a heavy burden for the Russian budget and Russian citizens do not want to sacrifice their living standards for the sake of great power ambitions. The need to limit its global ambitions due to shrinking resources, combined with its inability to find other proof of Russia’s greatness, will be a tough challenge for the Kremlin in the future. You have said that Western pundits struggle to understand Russia. What are the main sources of their misunderstandings?The history of fallacies is long, starting with the beginning of the post-communist period, when many people believed Yeltsin was a liberal reformer. In the recent past, prevailing fallacies include the idea common in 2010 and 2011 that the war in Ukraine is the result of European Union pressure on Ukraine and the desire of Europeans to play in the Russian area of interest. In Germany and in Washington, they were arguing that the war in Ukraine is just a civil war between different factions, with no kind of impact on the part of Russia.Another new myth is the collective campaign by pundits to find an equilibrium between Russia and the West. The key hope is that if the West stops NATO enlargement, then equilibrium can be reached. How has kleptocracy affected the trajectory of democratic development in Russia since the 1990s?It seems to me that there are two important points. First, we have to distinguish between corruption and kleptocracy. Corruption presupposes the existence of a more or less independent bureaucracy and state apparatus on the one hand, and the business class on the other, which allows the business class to bribe representatives of the elite. This is not a kleptocracy. This is simple and primitive corruption.Kleptocracy is the merger of power and property. Those who rule the country own it. This is a phenomenon that has emerged in the societies that have failed to transform themselves. The Eastern European communist countries that experienced successful anti-communist revolutions were lucky because they did so before this merger occurred. Anti-kleptocratic revolutions are much more complicated, and I don’t know whether they are possible everywhere.The current confrontation is being waged at a time when there is no clear world order, when the old paradigm has collapsed, and when at least some actors do not respect any kind of taboos. These regimes are gaining legitimacy by breaking the rules and by breaking taboos.The poisoning of Sergei Skripal and his daughter in Salisbury has brought renewed scrutiny of Russian investment, through real estate and other channels, in the U.K. Why does so much illicit Russian money end up in London, and what do you think can be done to address this?Well, it seems to me it’s understandable why the U.K. is so attractive for Russians. A very important factor is that the U.K. provides secure guarantees of private property, and it has a fair justice system. If you have something in Britain, it’s just safe. On the other hand, when the British allowed the penetration of dirty money and the U.K.’s transformation into a laundromat, they helped to create a very powerful machine that serviced the needs of authoritarian kleptocracies and made “Londongrad” part of their kleptocratic establishment.We should mention that the British have started to become quite concerned about this dirty money. They recently passed a law on unexplained wealth orders that allows British law enforcement to investigative the origins of dirty money, and at least two cases from Central Asia have been investigated. They are also scrutinizing their “golden visa” regime, which allows people to purchase visas in exchange for one or two million pounds.The British have become concerned, not only about the corruption of their financial system and real estate market, but about the pillars of their political system. The question is to what extent they will be concerned enough to start a serious investigation.According to some estimates, 125 billion pounds of Russian money, not only dirty but all types of money, came into the U.K. Altogether, according to experts, a major portion of between 800 billion and 1 trillion pounds of Russian money that left the country went through the U.K. and its affiliated islands.The problem is that the Brits cannot fight this war alone. And the success of the British anti-kleptocracy campaign depends on the unity of the European Union, and to what extent the whole European community understands that Europe and the West have powerful instruments of influencing not only authoritarian countries, but also reforming their own societies. So, the ball is in the Western court.Two things to end with. The current global situation could be more pervasive, more cynical, more unpredictable, and more dangerous than the previous Cold War. The Cold War was waged according to certain rules of the game that both sides respected. The current confrontation is being waged at a time when there is no clear world order, when the old paradigm has collapsed, and when at least some actors do not respect any kind of taboos. These regimes are gaining legitimacy by breaking the rules and by breaking taboos. That’s why we have the Hitchcock effect all the time.Secondly, we shouldn’t ignore one very important element of Russia’s recklessness. Despite the fact that Russia is a country in decay, Russia in fact creates a shadow. And there is another power, China, calmly standing in the shadow, watching the whole phenomenon and waiting for the final results of this game. In a much more astute, much more strategic way, it is trying to fill the void, trying to use this desperate struggle between reckless, adventurous Russia and the West for its own gain. And waiting for the moment when the two elephants will defeat each other. “Russia as a Global Challenge,” an April 17 event at the National Endowment for Democracy, with Lilia Shevtsova, Miriam Lanskoy, and Christopher Walker.Melissa Aten’s Big Question with Lilia Shevtsova, Mark Galeotti, Vladislav Inozemtsev, and Hannah Thoburn on “Kleptocracy and Russia’s Foreign Policy”“The Kremlin Emboldened: Paradoxes of Decline,” an October 2017 Journal of Democracy article by Lilia Shevtsova.“The Rise of Kleptocracy: Power and Plunder in Putin’s Russia,” a January 2018 Journal of Democracy article by Miriam Lanskoy and Dylan Myles-Primakoff.Liberia’s continued lack of transparency poses a...The panel will discuss how such research and analysis...Remarks given at the "Civic Education and Democracy...Shanthi Kalathil testified in front of the Congressional-Executive Commission...
#International Forum for Democratic Studies April 2018 Newsletter: “The Rise of Kleptocracy”#April 12, 2018# On February 14, political economist and Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellow Gabor Scheiring shed light on the socioeconomic roots of the authoritarian turn in Hungary, while also offering comparative insights intorecent developments in Poland and the Czech Republic.  NED's president spoke on the "Autocratic Superpowers’ Methodology of Influence"...Democratization in Africa: Progress and RetreatA...Columbia Professor Dr. Andrew J. Nathan will deliver...Popular Ghanaian radio host Nana Ama Agyemang Asante...Johan Lagerkvist is professor of Chinese language and culture at Stockholm University.
#NED Welcomes Spring 2018 Reagan-Fascell Fellows#April 5, 2018#WASHINGTON—The National Endowment for Democracy (NED) is pleased to announce its Spring 2018 cohort of Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellows, which includes leading democracy activists, practitioners, journalists, and scholars from Argentina, Egypt, Zimbabwe, Democratic Republic of Congo, Pakistan, Afghanistan, Bulgaria, Russia, and Peru.Named in honor of President Ronald Reagan and the late Congressman Dante Fascell (D-Fl.), whose bipartisan vision led to NED’s founding, the Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellows Program seeks to expand the knowledge, broaden the perspectives, build the capacity, and boost the morale of some of the world’s most committed and courageous democracy advocates.Based in Washington, DC at NED’s International Forum for Democratic Studies, the Reagan-Fascell program has enabled over 270 fellows from more than 90 countries to deepen their understanding of democracy and enhance their ability to work toward democratic change.Spring 2018 Reagan-Fascell FellowsMs. María Baron | Argentina “Evaluating Government-CSO Partnerships in Promoting Democracy and Development in Latin America”Ms. María Baron is an Argentine journalist and global executive director of Directorio Legislativo, an organization that promotes transparency in government, democratic consolidation, and enhanced access to public information throughout Latin America. She is also founding chair of the Latin American Network for Legislative Transparency, a group comprising 24 civil society organizations across 12 countries in the region. During her fellowship, Ms. Baron is analyzing the structures that allow for successful partnerships between government and civil society in promoting democratic development in Argentina.Ms. Aya Hijazi | Egypt/United States “The Average Citizen’s Role in Reshaping the World”Ms. Aya Hijazi is an Egyptian-American children’s rights advocate who, along with her husband, Mohamed Hassanein, founded the Cairo-based Belady Foundation (My Country: An Island for Humanity) in 2013 to support Egyptian street children, steer them away from the street culture of violence, and reintegrate them into society through counseling, education, art, music, and skill building. During her fellowship, Ms. Hijazi is working to reestablish the Belady Foundation, and is focusing on civil society and the plight of political prisoners in Egypt.Dr. Alex Magaisa | Zimbabwe/United Kingdom “Making Rights Make Sense in Zimbabwe: A Citizen’s Manual on the Declaration of Rights”Dr. Alex Magaisa is a prominent Zimbabwean lawyer and constitutional expert currently teaching law at the University of Kent Law School in England. He is also the author of a widely acclaimed blog offering in-depth analyses of law and politics in Zimbabwe. During his fellowship, Dr. Magaisa is writing a handbook on citizens’ fundamental rights and freedoms under the new constitution, a project aimed at enhancing a culture of constitutionalism and democratic citizenship in Zimbabwe.Ms. Passy Mubalama | Democratic Republic of Congo “Strengthening Political Participation of Women and Girls in the DRC: Overcoming Cultural Barriers”Ms. Passy Mubalama is a pro-democracy and women’s rights activist with over 7 years of experience in promoting democracy, human rights, good governance and the rule of law in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC). She is founder and executive director of Action and Development Initiative for the Protection of Women and Children (AIDPROFEN), a nonprofit organization that promotes women’s rights in the eastern region of the DRC. During her fellowship, Ms. Mubalama is working on a handbook of strategies for overcoming cultural barriers to women’s political participation in the country.Mr. Nadeem Paracha | Pakistan “Reinvigorating Civic Nationalism in Pakistan”Mr. Nadeem Paracha, or “NFP” as he is known, is a prominent Pakistani journalist and satirist, currently serving as head of ideas and creative strategy at Adcom Leo Burnett, an independent advertising agency. A widely read columnist who has commented on topics including religious extremism and democratic values in Pakistan, he is a frequent contributor to the Dawn, Pakistan’s most popular English daily. During his fellowship, Mr. Paracha is tracing the pluralistic and democratic roots of Muslim nationalism in Pakistan, a research project that will culminate in articles intended to serve as a counterpoint to the dominant extremist narrative in the country.Mr. Khalil Parsa | Afghanistan “Combating Corruption in Afghanistan”Mr. Khalil Parsa is founding director of Supporting Organization for Afghanistan Civil Society, a NED grantee organization that builds the capacity of citizens and civil society organizations to report corruption. As head of the Herat Citizens Advocacy committee and as provincial director of Herat province’s Monitoring and Evaluation Committee, he has coordinated governmental and nongovernmental efforts in fighting against corruption in the region. During his fellowship, he is working on a policy memorandum delineating steps that the Afghan government, civil society, and international community may pursue in combating corruption in Afghanistan.Dr. Dimitrina Petrova | Bulgaria/United Kingdom “Reinventing the Human Rights Movement in Eastern Europe: A New Strategy for Civic Activism”Dr. Dimitrina Petrova is a Bulgarian human rights activist and Program Director of SOS Children’s Villages. Following a career in Bulgarian politics after the collapse of communism, she has dedicated her work to defending the rights of East-Central Europe’s Roma minority through her role as director of the Human Rights Project and later, as founder and executive director of the European Roma Rights Centre in Budapest. During her fellowship, she is working to devise new strategies for civic activism in East-Central Europe that better suit current geopolitical realities and antidemocratic trends in the region.Dr. Lilia Shevtsova | Russia/United States “Russia as the Challenge: The Art of Survival by Undermining the Global Order”Dr. Lilia Shevtsova is a prominent Russian political scientist currently based at Chatham House in London as an associate fellow. Over the course of her distinguished career, which has included stints at the Brookings Institution, Carnegie Moscow Center, Georgetown University, Sciences Po, University of California–Berkeley, Harvard University, St. Gallen, and Cornell University, she has conducted extensive research and writing on issues relating to postcommunist transformation, democratic transitions, and relations between Russia, the West, and Eastern Europe. During her fellowship, Dr. Shevtsova is studying the role of foreign policy in preserving Russia’s system of personalized power.Dr. Alberto Vergara | Peru/United States “Exploring Political Parties and Democracy through Fujimorismo in Peru”Dr. Alberto Vergara is a professor at the Department of Social and Political Sciences at the Universidad del Pacífico (Lima, Peru). Dr. Vergara’s work focuses primarily on representation, accountability, and subnational politics. His research has appeared in numerous academic journals, and he is the author of several books including La Danza Hostil: Poderes subnacionales y Estado central en Bolivia y Perú (1952-2012) (The hostile dance: subnational powers and central state in Bolivia and Peru). During his fellowship, he is focusing on the Peruvian phenomenon of “Fujimorismo” as a way to rethink the relation between democracy and political parties.With great sadness, the National Endowment for Democracy...Combating Corruption in Nigeria: The Promise of Investigative...
#Christopher Walker Testifies Before USCC on “China’s Relations with U.S. Allies and Partners in Europe and the Asia Pacific”#April 5, 2018#I would like to thank all of the Commissioners for the opportunity and privilege of presenting testimony to the Commission on this timely and critical subject.The present period of authoritarian resurgence has caught the democracies by surprise. This is in part due to a flawed assumption that took hold at the close of the Cold War: that engagement with authoritarian states would result in clear mutual benefit. By embracing regimes such as the one in Beijing, inviting its integration into the global economic system and key political institutions, the United States and other established democracies hoped to encourage China toward meaningful political reform and, eventually, to liberalize and democratize. But in an unanticipated twist, China and other influential authoritarian regimes have turned the tables on the democracies. Rather than reforming, China and other repressive regimes have deepened their authoritarianism. And now they are turning it outward.Although China and other authoritarian regimes have in many ways integrated into global financial and political institutions, they have not become more like the democracies. Rather, they have developed policies and practices aimed at containing and contesting democracy and the ideas that underlie it. Exploiting globalization and the opportunities presented by integration with the West, China has set out to reshape the very institutions and arenas that welcomed it. The Chinese authorities have even put forward their conception of “Globalization 2.0”: a vision of Party/Statedriven international economic cooperation epitomized by the “Belt and Road Initiative.” These developments are of high relevance to U.S. allies and partners around the globe, including those in Europe.From “Soft” to “Sharp” PowerIn the Cold War’s aftermath, analysts, journalists, scholars, and policymakers in the democracies perceived authoritarian influence efforts through the familiar lens of “soft power.” According to political scientist Joseph S. Nye’s definition, a country’s “hard power” is based on coercion and is largely a function of military or economic might. “Soft power,” by contrast, is rooted in attraction, and arises from the positive appeal of a country’s culture, political ideals, or policies.Beijing seeks to shape public perceptions, sentiments, and opinions overseas to an extent that simply would not have been possible a decade or more ago. With the rapid growth of the internet and social media, and the integration of authoritarian information outlets into the media spaces of democracies, the opportunities to exert influence abroad are greater today than at any time in the recent past.But those who interpret these efforts as a way for Beijing to boost its “soft power” miss the mark and risk perpetuating a false sense of security. The forms of influence that the Chinese authorities have emphasized in recent years are not “hard,” but they are not really “soft,” either. Authoritarian regimes like the one in Beijing view power projection and the notion of success in world politics in a way that cannot be divorced from the political values by which these states govern at home.A clearer picture of the Chinese authorities’ intentions can be gleaned from China’s domestic political and media landscape. In the decade since the 2008 Beijing Olympics, the Chinese authorities have intensified their suppression of dissent, silenced political opponents, inundated their citizens with propagandistic content, and deftly co-opted independent voices, all while working to maintain the appearance of pluralism, openness, and modernity. In recent years, the realm of ideas in China has been steadily monopolized by the state and its surrogates. The CCP’s announcement in March 2018 that it would merge a constellation of broadcasters into one state-controlled entity is emblematic of this trend to manage and manipulate information within and beyond China’s borders. This new entity, Voice of China, strengthens the Party’s grip on public perceptions, while seeking to “propagate the theories, political line and policies of the party . . . and [to] tell China’s story well.”Given the ways in which such authoritarian influence efforts have taken shape, what we have to date understood as “soft power” when speaking in the context of authoritarian regimes might be more properly labeled “sharp power,” whose key attributes are outward-facing censorship and manipulation, rather than persuasion and attraction.As my colleagues at the International Forum for Democratic Studies noted in our December 2017 report, “Sharp Power: Rising Authoritarian Influence,” authoritarian influence efforts are “sharp” in the sense that they pierce, penetrate, or perforate the information and political environments of targeted countries. The growing inventory of tools used by repressive regimes are not “soft” in that they seek merely to attract support. These tools are not principally aimed at “charming” or “winning hearts and minds”—the common frames of reference for “soft power” efforts—but they are surely designed to manipulate their target audiences by shaping the information that reaches them. Indeed, such tactics should be seen as instruments of manipulation, distortion, and distraction that reflect the antidemocratic political systems of the authoritarian states that wield them.There is clearly nothing “soft” about how these regimes treat the media, education, and the realm of ideas in their domestic environments. Should we view their outward-facing activities differently?		Ivan Krastev explained why illiberal and anti-Western sentiments continue to...The July 2018 issue features an eight-article cluster...Keeping Democratic Hopes Alive in Russia and Ukraine:...The International Forum for Democratic Studies asked...In the January 2018 issue of the Journal of Democracy,...Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellow Agon Maliqi discussed how to bolster domestic...
#NED’s International Forum Welcomes New Members to the Network of Democracy Research Institutes (NDRI)#March 26, 2018# The Network of Democracy Research Institutes (NDRI) is a global network of think tanks that conduct research and analysis on democracy, democratization, and related topics in comparative government and international affairs. The collaborative space created by the NDRI allows think tanks from diverse parts of the world to initiate joint projects. The NDRI also encourages member institutes to reach out in solidarity to one another and to share knowledge and experiences.The International Forum is pleased to welcome the following members to the Network of Democracy Research Institutes:Ghia Nodia is professor of politics and director of the International School...The April 2019 issue of the Journal of Democracy features...In his new book, Post-Communist Mafia State, Dr. Bálint...Carl Gershman reflects on the state of democracy in...Democracy Research News is the electronic newsletter of the Network of Democracy...
#Shanthi Kalathil Testifies Before HFAC Sub-Committee on Asia and the Pacific on “U.S. Responses to China’s Foreign Influence Operations”#March 21, 2018#Chairman Yoho, Ranking Member Sherman, thank you for the opportunity to testify before the subcommittee on this important issue.My remarks today will focus on how a rising China has increasingly been able to wield influence that chills free expression within democracies around the world. Successfully controlling political speech and expression at home has morphed into a broader approach that seeks to manipulate, suppress and surveil expression and the free exchange of ideas outside China’s borders. This is not simply about “telling China’s story,” as Chinese authorities like to claim – it is also about shutting down a more contextualized version of China’s story, as well as suppressing at a global level the discussion of a growing number of issues that the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) finds sensitive.This has an impact on academic freedom at universities and schools around the world, on the international publishing sector, on communications infrastructure and independent media in developing countries, and on a free and open Internet. Beijing uniquely wields this influence due to China’s market appeal and growing stature, employing a combination of carrots and sticks. As Xi Jinping’s power consolidation and other events have demonstrated, China is moving in both a more authoritarian and a more global direction – which means these trends are likely to intensify.Taking Domestic Tactics OverseasWith the advent of the Internet, many originally thought the Chinese government would find it impossible to control the political impact of communication within its borders. But the Internet has not only spread but flourished within China, all while the Chinese government has fine-tuned its management of politically sensitive expression. Since I first began studying this issue many years ago, the shape of the Internet within China has certainly changed, but the overall tactics used by the Chinese government have generally remained stable. First, technological innovation has enabled fine-grained censorship and increasing surveillance, now made possible by tremendous amounts of data collection in a weak rule-of-law environment. Second, while the actual censorship and surveillance apparatus is important, equally important is the inducement of self-censorship at all levels, which relies on fear and an implicit understanding of taboo issues. And finally, control and/or co-optation of the infrastructure of ideas and communication (including the actual pipes, the regulatory environment, and the private sector) is key, such that the interests of those innovating within and powering the information sector within China run parallel to – or, at the very least, not counter to – the interests of the Party.Just as in the past with respect to the flow of information within China, many now also find it difficult to believe that the CCP can exert influence over expression and communication outside its borders. Yet what we learn from its existing domestic approach is that a) it works; and b) it is possible to use similar tactics on an international scale to dampen or distort the free exchange of ideas. As noted in the National Endowment for Democracy’s recent report on “sharp power,” authoritarian regimes inevitably project overseas the values they live by within their borders. This projection of influence has already had a chilling effect within democracies…Anwar Ibrahim, President of the People's Justice Party of Malaysia, presented...Donald K. Emmerson is director of the Southeast Asia...This article is based on remarks Carl Gershman delivered...Pakistani journalist Nadeem F. Paracha explored the...Over the past decade, illiberal powers have become...The National Endowment for Democracy will honor defenders of human and religious...
#Grantee Spotlight: Krishna Kumari, Chairperson and Project Director of DAMAN Elected to Pakistan Senate#March 7, 2018#Ms. Krishna Kumari made history on March 3, 2018, when she became the first lower-caste Hindu woman elected to the Senate in Pakistan.  Kumari is chairperson and project director of Development, Awareness and Management of Natural Resources (DAMAN), a NED grantee since 2013.Kumari and her family were formerly bonded laborers from Tharparkar, a desert region in southern Pakistan. After gaining their freedom, Kumari and her brother helped to establish DAMAN in order to raise awareness within their communities about bonded labor, provide legal assistance to liberate hundreds of families still in bondage, and work to transform victims of bonded labor into agents of social change. DAMAN conducts awareness and advocacy campaigns to eliminate bonded labor, working with police, government officials, lawyers, the media, and civil society groups to generate momentum for legal reforms and improve enforcement of existing laws. DAMAN also carries out civic and voter education for women, youth and religious minorities so that marginalized communities will have a voice and can work towards a more pluralistic and tolerant democratic future.Dr. Fouzia Saeed and Maliha Hussain, leaders of another NED grantee, Mehergarh, know Kumari well from her days as a participant in Mehergarh’s Human Rights Youth Leadership Training  in 2007.  They commented on Kumari’s historic election and the importance of cultivating political talent from all sectors of society. “We have seen Krishna bloom from a housewife and a mother of four in an extremely disadvantaged community to an activist for social change, a lobbyist for Hindu marriage registration bill to a representative of Thar Desert in the rest of the country, ending up now in the Senate of Pakistan.  This is how identifying potential and continuous grooming helps to bring the voices in the neglected peripheries to the center and strengthen democracies.”Read more about Krishna Kumari on the Democracy Digest. Zimbabwean women’s rights advocate Nyaradzo Mashayamombe discussed the state...In the wake of the 2013-14 Maidan protests and change...Pakistani journalist Nadeem F. Paracha explored the...For over 20 years, NED has funded dozens of civil society organizations that...
#About the National Endowment for Democracy#March 5, 2018#In 1983, The National Endowment for Democracy began its work supporting freedom around the world. Today, NED is a comprehensive support system for democrats in more than 90 countries. The Endowment is both a keystone of President Ronald Reagan’s legacy and a rare example of bipartisan cooperation and solidarity.2004 Democracy Service MedalPresented to:  Bob Graham, Seymour Martin...Building on their earlier article, "The Danger of Deconsolidation:...In anticipation of celebrating the 25th anniversary...Remarks by NED President Carl Gershman on the Enduring...The Solidarity Center recently conducted an informal survey of working conditions...
#National Endowment for Democracy mourns the death of Chinese lawyer Li Baiguang#February 26, 2018#Suspicious death must be investigatedWASHINGTON, DC – The National Endowment for Democracy (NED) was deeply saddened and concerned to learn of the sudden and unexpected death of Chinese lawyer and activist Li Baiguang who passed away on Monday, February 26 at an army hospital in Nanjing, China.Li, a tireless advocate of religious freedom and human rights, was a frequent target of harassment and physical intimidation for his work to uphold the rights of Chinese citizens provided for under Chinese law.  He was a recipient of NED’s 2008 Democracy Award.“We mourn the death of Li Baiguang, who was a good and courageous man who fought for human rights and religious freedom in China at great risk to his own personal safety,” said NED president Carl Gershman.  “When we honored him with the NED’s Democracy Award in 2008, we noted that he had been detained and physically attacked many times for his work, the first time in 2004 when he had brought legal action on behalf of 100,000 peasants who had been forcibly evicted from their land.  Given this history, and reports that he very recently appeared to be in good health, it is essential that an independent and impartial investigation into Li’s death be carried out before anyone accepts the official claim by Chinese authorities that Li Baiguang died from natural causes,” said Gershman. “Absent a credible investigation, reasonable people of good will hold the Chinese government responsible for the death of Li Baiguang and will see clearly the grave dangers facing all those who seek to defend the rule of law in China and to support people whose rights are grievously abused.”The Board of Directors and the staff of the National Endowment for Democracy extend their sincere condolences and deepest sympathy to Li’s wife Xu Hanmei and to their eight-year-old son, as well as to Li’s colleagues who continue their brave work to defend human rights and the rule of law in China.Christopher Walker testifies before the U.S. House Permanent Select Committee...Ashley Esarey teaches in the Department of Political...Read remarks by NED President Carl Gershman at “North...A half-day international conference celebrating the...
#Parting Chairman Judy Shelton Reflects on NED’s Work#February 12, 2018#We are thankful for Judy Shelton’s leadership during her time as Chairman of NED’s Board of Directors and wish her well as she serves as U.S. director of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD)..embed-container { position: relative; padding-bottom: 56.25%; height: 0; overflow: hidden; max-width: 100%; } .embed-container iframe, .embed-container object, .embed-container embed { position: absolute; top: 0; left: 0; width: 100%; height: 100%; }Andrew H. Card Jr., former White House chief of staff to President George W....It was with deep sadness that the Board and staff of...We asked parting NED Board Members, Will Marshall,...America's founding values are our nation's greatest...On Friday, January 16th, the board of directors of...This month, we celebrate the 35th anniversary of the Westminster Address.
#Grantee Spotlight: Timbuktu Renaissance#February 6, 2018#.embed-container { position: relative; padding-bottom: 56.25%; height: 0; overflow: hidden; max-width: 100%; } .embed-container iframe, .embed-container object, .embed-container embed { position: absolute; top: 0; left: 0; width: 100%; height: 100%; }Islamists banned their music. Now Timbuktu is singing again.Gold jewellery glinting, robes changing from blue to green under the lights, the diva of Timbuktu sang of Allah, salt mines and camels. Her audience sat silently around a courtyard, watching, listening, giving nothing away. Then, as she began Sourgou, her haunting Tuareg song, two men who could no longer contain their joy leapt on stage with her. They began to dance, crowns of charms around their heads, streaming turbans following their swooping movements.Khaira Arby had been away from home for a long time, but on a Tuesday last month, she brought her music back to Timbuktu, the legendary Malian city of poetry and learning that has, in recent years, been silenced by a prolonged and complex conflict.Hers was the first of a series of monthly concerts to be put on by Timbuktu Renaissance, an organisation whose mission is to bring the town’s people back together through culture.Read the full article.More than 20 years after the peace deal, Bosnia and Herzegovina is still challenged...In order to contribute to the spread of correct information...In Ho Park is the head of North Korean research at...Krishna Kumari's election to the upper house of Pakistan...With NED support, Promo-LEX is promoting and defending human rights in the region.
#National Endowment for Democracy names Brian Joseph vice president for   Asia, Middle East & North Africa, and Global programs#February 5, 2018#WASHINGTON, D.C. – Brian Joseph has been named vice president for Asia, Middle East & North Africa, and global programs by the National Endowment for Democracy (NED). Joseph, who joined the Endowment in 1995, most recently served as senior director for Asia and global programs and was responsible for the development and management of the Endowment’s grant making in Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Tibet and Burma, among other countries. “Brian is immensely qualified to understand and respond to the challenges facing NED and its grantees,” said NED president Carl Gershman.  “I look forward to his becoming a core member of the NED leadership team, and I’m confident that he will continue to expand his impressive skills as his regional and management responsibilities grow.”During his tenure as senior director, Joseph managed a regional grant portfolio of 365 projects totaling $34 millon. He has spoken widely and written about Burma, Pakistan, Thailand, human rights in Asia, and democracy promotion in closed societies.  His areas of interest include philanthropy, opposition movements, independent media, and minority rights.  He appears regularly in the media, including on the PBS NewsHour, the Diane Rehm Show, The World, CNN and Aljazeera and his articles have been published in the Journal of Democracy, The Chronicle Review, The International Herald Tribune, and the SAIS Review.Joseph has testified before the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations’ Subcommittee on East Asia and Pacific Affairs, the Congressional Human Rights Caucus, and the Canadian Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs and International trade, provided high-level briefings for State Department officials, and lectured at the Foreign Service Institute. He has also participated in pre-assessment and election monitoring missions. Brian formerly served as co-convener of the Burma Donors’ Forum, a volunteer South Asia regional coordinator for Amnesty International USA, and a member of the International Human Rights Funders’ Group. He has a BA in History from Colorado College and an MA in South Asian Studies from the University of Wisconsin–Madison.The National Endowment for Democracy was established in 1983 as a private, nonprofit, grant-making foundation with a mission to strengthen democratic institutions around the world through nongovernmental efforts. With an annual appropriation from the U.S. Congress, the NED Board, which is independent and bipartisan, makes more than 1600 grants each year to support projects that promote political and economic freedom and participation, human rights, a strong civil society, independent media and the rule of law in more than 90 countries.NED will honor defenders of human and religious rights...Bulgarian human rights defender Dimitrina Petrova will... “In the Shadows of Democracy:LGBTIQ Rights...The April 2019 issue of the Journal of Democracy features...NED will host legendary Belarusian rock musician and activist Lavon Volski in...
#Forum Q&A: Maria Ressa on Digital Disinformation and Philippine Democracy in the Balance#February 5, 2018#TWEET | SHARE | PDFMaria Ressa is a leading Filipina journalist and CEO of  Rappler, an online news site based in the Philippines. In 2017, she accepted the National Democratic Institute’s Democracy Award on behalf of  Rappler for its coverage of disinformation in the Philippines. She has more than thirty years of experience working as a journalist in Southeast Asia, most of them as CNN’s bureau chief in Manila, then Jakarta. She later spent six years managing more than a thousand journalists for the largest multi-platform news operation in the Philippines. Follow her on Twitter @mariaressa.The election of Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte in 2016 came amidst a wave of divisive rhetoric and digital disinformation. Since the election, independent journalists and opposition politicians have been targeted by systematic campaigns of online harassment, and investigators have identified networks of pro-government bloggers and automated social media accounts engaged in a concerted effort to tarnish the credibility of the independent Philippine press and bolster support for President Duterte.On January 15, 2018, shortly after this interview was conducted, the Philippines’ Securities and Exchange Commission revoked Rappler’s registration, claiming that international funding the site received from philanthropic sources violated Philippine law regulating foreign ownership of mass media. Rappler objected to the ruling, noting that the receipt of these funds afforded their donor neither ownership of Rappler nor control of its operations or reporting. Observers called the decision a blow to press freedom in the Philippines.Dean Jackson of the International Forum for Democratic Studies spoke with Maria Ressa about her experience working as a journalist in a rapidly deteriorating media environment and the impact of social media on the trajectory of democracy in Southeast Asia. (This interview has been condensed and edited for clarity. The views and opinions expressed within do not necessarily reflect those of the National Endowment for Democracy.) Dean Jackson: You’ve had a distinguished career covering Southeast Asia. What is your view on the health of the region’s media ecosystem today—how has it waxed and waned over time?Maria Ressa: For a big chunk of this time I was “foreign media”—I was able to come in and out of the region and had the privilege to move from local media, where we started our own kind of “60 Minutes” in 1986, to CNN,  where I worked from 1987 to about 2005. After that, I came home to the Philippines and worked for the largest network there. What I saw from the late ‘80s until 2016 was really the movement of Southeast Asia away from autocratic, one man rule. I covered every country in our region as it transitioned to democracy. The trigger was the Philippines in 1986. Going through that – Singaporean Prime Minister Lee Kuan Yew stepping down; the retirement of Malaysia’s longest-serving Prime Minister, Mahathir Mohamad, after twenty-two years in power; going through the end of thirty-two years of Suharto’s rule in Indonesia… it was amazing. I felt like I was covering a region where people were finding their voices and finding ways to speak truth to power.The other trend that happened during that time was a shift toward independent media. In some countries, the shift was incomplete: In Indonesia during the 2014 elections, you still saw politicians and businessmen with political ambitions owning media. But, in general, journalism flourished, and certainly in the Philippines from 1986 until recently, we had a rambunctious—that’s the word that’s always used—a rambunctious, free press after we came out of twenty-one years of rule by the Marcos dictatorship.I got to cover the pendulum swinging this way, but now I fear that that it may be moving back the other way towards authoritarian rule. That also began in the Philippines, with the election of Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte. Like the rest of the world, what you’re seeing is that liberal democracy has not been inclusive enough, the benefits haven’t trickled down to everyone, and social media technology has empowered populations to demand more; it’s had a great impact on both perception and the vote in these democracies. Do you think of the Philippines as a bellwether for the region?  Well, some people say the Philippines is much more like Latin America than it is like the rest of Southeast Asia, but again, when it comes to freedom of the press, issues of human rights, and even its role in the geopolitical balance of power, we’re seeing a reversal in the Philippines with Duterte’s election in 2016. You’re seeing a rollback and people wanting more of a ‘macho man’ who knows what he wants, who goes where he wants and does what he wants, who seems authentic. At the same time, he’s shifted the Philippines away from its traditional alliance with the United States towards China and Russia, and those are new things; in the thirty-some odd years I’ve been a journalist, I’ve not seen this kind of radical shift in such a short period of time. You have a harrowing personal story about what it’s like to navigate this shifting media environment as a journalist. Could you summarize your experience as a target of systemic harassment over social media?You know, Rappler was born in 2012 and we rode the crest of social media. We were great advocates for empowering ordinary people through social media and we pushed Filipinos to adopt it. But what we saw during the campaigns of 2016 was the fomenting of anger, hitting these fracture lines within societies… in the Philippines, it was the gap between the rich and the poor and the gap between “Imperial Manila” and the countryside. The campaign leading up to the 2016 elections fomented anger over these gaps, but after President Duterte won, that was when it really became weaponized. Any kind of independent institution or voice was targeted. So beginning in July 2016, for about a month after the elections, President Duterte boycotted traditional journalists, and at the same time his campaign machinery began targeting news organizations with messages about corruption in media, attacking the credibility of traditional journalism. Shortly after that, it began targeting individual journalists.Rappler and I became a target after we did a series on the “propaganda wars.” We released stories that showed how this hate was being used to create doubt in institutions and in journalists… That triggered a wave of attacks against me and against Rappler that reached as many as ninety hate messages per hour… ninety messages a week, you can handle, but an hour? That becomes a whole different ball game, and our response to it was to do what we do as journalists: to shine a light and tell people that these attacks were happening, that journalists were being targeted.After journalists were targeted, opposition politicians were next, and the one who I think really bore the brunt of the propaganda machine’s attacks was Senator Leila de Lima, the former Commission on Human Rights chief and justice secretary who had been investigating Duterte and then became a Senator; President Duterte began targeting her and within a few months, she was jailed.The harbinger of the attacks against her in the real world was a social media campaign. What we saw with these attacks is not just an attempt to tear down the credibility of anyone questioning or perceived to be a critic of government, but also to seed doubt in truth, and this is where you can see the disinformation campaign that continues today. You’ve said elsewhere that Duterte may have adopted these techniques from authoritarian governments overseas. Could you tell us more about that?Well, this approach certainly isn’t homegrown. Rappler is a startup that grew on social media and we watched exponential growth in the use of anger and hate online, which had not really happened in the Philippines like this before. We looked to two countries when trying to figure out what was going on. The first was China, and the other was actually Ukraine and what Russia had done there. Looking at the data, in China during 2016 state-sponsored accounts produced roughly 450 million fake messages on social media. But the difference between the approach in China and the Russian approach in Ukraine was the pointed anger, the sowing of doubt in truth, the disinformation aspects of it. In China, you’re flooded with state messages but they are kind of boring, extolling the virtues of the state, versus what we saw Russia using in Ukraine and against its own citizens, the breaking down of facts until you don’t know what is real and what is trustworthy… in that environment, the most powerful voice gains more power. In Russia that voice belongs to Putin, and in the Philippines it belongs to Duterte. Has that been the largest effect on Philippine politics from these shifts in the media environment? How do politics work in an environment where the media operates in that way? Up until 2016, because our institutions are weak in the Philippines, traditional media and journalists were seen as the most credible institutions. We’ve seen this shift quickly: traditional media was bombarded beginning in July of 2016, and now many Filipinos’ trust in traditional media has been eroded as disinformation and fake news have polarized our society.The ecosystem has changed dramatically: at the base of it is the weaponization of the social media campaign machinery that was used during the 2016 elections. Several of the key creators of propaganda from the campaign machine are now paid by the government.The second layer of this is, how does it shift from social media to traditional media? There are newspapers and websites that are owned and operated by businessmen close to President Duterte or who are appointed to their positions by him. From there, it jumps into state media, which operates through radio, on television, and online. State media is run by the Presidential Communications Operations Office, which has no qualms about saying that they are sending their folks for training to China and Russia. These are former journalists, and I remember asking them, “Really? You’re sending your guys to China and Russia for training?” And they said “Yes, because it’s free!” And then, finally, you close the loop through the way appointments have been made. This information ecosystem is the harbinger of some of the policy shifts and priorities of the Duterte administration.Let’s be blunt about this now: traditional journalists are no longer the gatekeepers. Human journalists have been replaced by the assumptions built into the platforms’ algorithms, which looks more and more like mob rule. It creates echo chambers, and in the process, has weakened Philippine democracy.It’s striking that state employees are doing this openly. Often,  governments outsource this activity so that there’s some degree of plausible deniability, but it doesn’t sound like that’s the case in the Philippines. It starts with that first step of crippling traditional media. Part of how you do that is you replace traditional journalists with bloggers who do propaganda for the administration. That, I suppose, is great for the people in the administration, who feel that they’re among friends, but what’s shocking to me is the idea of attacking the media as a check on the government.This transition is very apparent, and I think that part of the reason it’s been possible is because of the big social media platforms, which have gotten rid of a public space where you see different sides of the story; instead, it’s algorithms where if you follow the propaganda machine’s content creators and bloggers, you will only see their content and you won’t see any of the challenges to that worldview. These echo chambers are extremely dangerous in a threatened democracy like the Philippines, because information is key to keeping democracy strong.Let’s be blunt about this now: traditional journalists are no longer the gatekeepers. Human journalists have been replaced by the assumptions built into the platforms’ algorithms, which looks more and more like mob rule. It creates echo chambers, and in the process, has weakened Philippine democracy. Could you go into more detail on how social media has contributed to the shift you’ve described?I was one of social media’s greatest advocates, and again: Rappler could not have grown and could not have become the media organization that we are today without the power of social media. In the Philippines, social media is our public space; more than 97 percent of Filipinos who are online are on Facebook. One of the reasons I was such an advocate of social media in the beginning was because I felt like it empowered everyone, and it did; but by driving news consumption through the platforms, social media companies have, without realizing it, taken over the gatekeeping power of journalists.The algorithms that power the platforms don’t distinguish between fact and fiction, or between the New York Times and dubious blogs, or between what you ate for dinner and the top news of the day. The platforms give all of this to you in a mix, and the more you click on something the more of it you are given. That assumption, when it comes to news and information in a working democracy… well, we saw the impact of that globally in 2016. We first saw it in Brexit, and we saw it in Duterte’s election in the Philippines. “Distinguishing Disinformation from Propaganda, ‘Fake News,’ and Misinformation,” an International Forum issue brief by Dean Jackson.“From Crisis to Governance: Reclaiming the Philippines’ Democracy Narrative,” a January 10, 2018 public presentation by Reagan-Fascell Fellow Maxine Tanya Hamada.“The Authoritarian Capture of Social Media,” by Peter Kreko for the Power 3.0 blog.Dean Jackson’s November 2017 Q&A with Jonathon Morgan on “Tracking Digital Disinformation.”Dean Jackson’s July 2017 Q&A with Phil Howard on “Computational Propaganda’s Challenge to Democracy.”“Southeast Asia: Voting Against Disorder,” an April 2017 Journal of Democracy article by Thomas Pepinsky (Project Muse subscription required).Read Carl Gershman's Remarks on authoritarianism in...The “internet of things” is made up of device networks...The October 2017 issue features six essays on Russia's autocracy, a debate on...
#NED Welcomes New Board Members#February 5, 2018#In addition to Andrew Card elected as NED’s new Chairman at the January 5th meeting of NED’s Board of Directors, seven new members were also elected to the Board:Eileen Donahoe is Executive Director of the Global Digital Policy Incubator at Stanford University’s Center for Democracy, Development and the Rule of Law, where she works to develop global digital policies that address human rights, security and governance challenges. She served as the first US Ambassador to the United Nations Human Rights Council in Geneva, during the Obama Administration. After leaving government, she was Director of Global Affairs at Human Rights Watch where she represented the organization worldwide on human rights foreign policy.Read her full bioIn the course of his forty-year Foreign Service career, Ambassador Fried played a key role in designing and implementing American policy in Europe after the fall of the Soviet Union.  As special assistant and NSC senior director for Presidents Clinton and Bush, ambassador to Poland, and assistant secretary of state for Europe (2005-09), Ambassador Fried crafted the policy of NATO enlargement to Central European nations and, in parallel, NATO-Russia relations, thus advancing the goal of Europe whole, free, and at peace. During those years, the West’s community of democracy and security grew in Europe.   Read his full bioHaving arrived in the United States at the height of the Cold War from Cuba at age 15, Mel rose to be elected as the first Cuban-American to serve in the United States Senate.  During his term, he served on several committees including Armed Services; Foreign Relations; Banking, Housing & Urban Affairs; Energy and Natural Resources; Commerce, Science and Transportation; and the Special Committee on Aging.  He also served as General Chairman of the Republican National Committee in 2008.Read his full bio.Ambassador Victoria Nuland is Chief Executive Officer at the Center for a New American Security.  She is also a Senior Advisor at the Boston Consulting Group, and Brady Johnson distinguished practitioner in the Grand Strategy at Yale University.  Prior to joining CNAS, Ambassador Nuland was Senior Counselor at Albright Stonebridge Group, and a Brookings Institution non-resident Senior Fellow.Read her full bio.Dayton Ogden is the global leader of Spencer Stuart’s CEO Succession advisory services and a member of the Board and Industrial practices. His search consulting work focuses on senior executive and board recruiting for a broad range of international clients.Read his full bio.She joined ASG after serving as U.S. Assistant Secretary of State for African Affairs (2013 – 2017). In this capacity, Ambassador Thomas-Greenfield led U.S. policy toward sub-Saharan Africa, with a focus on peace and security, democracy and governance, economic empowerment and investment opportunities. Prior to this appointment, she served as Director General of the Foreign Service and Director of Human Resources where she oversaw all personnel functions for the U.S. Department of State’s 70,000-strong workforce.Read her full bio.Ambassador Richard Verma is Vice Chairman and Partner at The Asia Group, where he leads the firm’s growth in South Asia. He previously served as the U.S. Ambassador to India from 2014 to 2017, where he is credited for the historic deepening of bilateral ties. A leading expert on trade and diplomacy in Asia, Ambassador Verma brings 25 years of experience across senior levels of business, law, diplomacy, and the military.Read his full bio.Andrew H. Card Jr., former White House chief of staff to President George W....On February 14, the National Endowment for Democracy...The National Endowment for Democracy (NED) will honor...Remarks by Dr. Judy Shelton, Vice Chairman of NED. We are thankful for Judy Shelton's leadership during...This month, we celebrate the 35th anniversary of the Westminster Address.
#Will Marshall, Stephen Sestanovich, and Princeton Lyman Reflect on the Importance of NED#January 22, 2018#We asked parting NED Board Members, Will Marshall, Stephen Sestanovich, and Princeton Lyman, to reflect on the importance of NED’s work..embed-container { position: relative; padding-bottom: 56.25%; height: 0; overflow: hidden; max-width: 100%; } .embed-container iframe, .embed-container object, .embed-container embed { position: absolute; top: 0; left: 0; width: 100%; height: 100%; }On Friday, January 16th, the board of directors of the National Endowment for...Thank you for supporting the National Endowment for...Current events suggest that Angola today faces an economic...We are thankful for Judy Shelton's leadership during...It was with deep sadness that the Board and staff of...During this event, panelists will discuss ongoing dialogue efforts and explore...
#Andrew H. Card Jr. Elected New Chairman of National Endowment for Democracy#January 19, 2018#NED Adds Eight New Board MembersWASHINGTON, D.C. –Andrew H. Card Jr., former White House chief of staff to President George W. Bush, has been elected the new chairman of the National Endowment for Democracy (NED). Card succeeds Judy Shelton, who has been nominated to serve as U.S. director of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD). The Hon. David E. Skaggs is NED’s new vice chairman.“America has always been a beacon of freedom in the world,” said Card. “And the National Endowment for Democracy has led the way for more than three decades, providing assistance and solidarity on behalf of the American people to so many around the world who are working to establish free societies that guarantee human and political rights for all. It’s an honor to have the opportunity to help guide this important, bipartisan institution.”Card served as the second-longest tenured White House Chief of Staff, from 2001—2006. More recently, he served as president of Franklin Pierce University from 2015—2016, executive director of the Office of the Provost and vice president for Academic Affairs at Texas A&M University from 2013—2014, and acting dean of the Bush School of Government and Public Service at Texas A&M from 2011—2013. From 1992—1993, Card served as U.S. Secretary of Transportation, and White House Deputy Chief of Staff from 1989—1992. Card got his start in politics when he was elected to local office in his home town of Holbrook, MA in 1971 and then serving in the Massachusetts House of Representatives from 1975—1983.“The Endowment is thrilled to welcome Andy Card as the new leader of the NED Board of Directors,” said NED President Carl Gershman. “He brings a combination of experience in politics, business, education and public life that will be invaluable in steering the Endowment in the years ahead. We also extend our thanks to Judy Shelton, who has provided outstanding leadership this past year as chairman, in addition to her previous nine years of service on the NED Board.”Seven new members were also elected to the NED Board of Directors at its January meeting:Gershman also paid tribute to four retiring board members for their years of service. Martin Frost, Will Marshall, Steve Sestanovich, and Princeton Lyman had each served the maximum 9 years (3 terms) on the Board. “NED is continually blessed with board members who are extremely generous with their time and expertise,” said Gershman. We are deeply grateful for the contributions made by these four who provided outstanding guidance in helping to shape NED grant making for nearly a decade. We are particularly grateful for the leadership of Martin Frost, who served as NED’s chairman from 2013-2017.”NED was established in 1983 as a private, nonprofit, grant-making foundation with a mission to strengthen democratic institutions around the world through nongovernmental efforts. With an annual appropriation from the U.S. Congress, the NED Board, which is independent and bipartisan, makes more than 1600 grants each year to support projects that promote political and economic freedom and participation, human rights, a strong civil society, independent media and the rule of law.This week, Congress will honor a man who represented the great history of the...A half-day conference honoring the legacy of Jan Nowak-Jeziorański.“Speaking Truth to Power: Media Capture, Disinformation...Warsaw-based Polish Newspaper Gazeta Wyborcza sat down...This month, we celebrate the 35th anniversary of the Westminster Address.
#Journal of Democracy January 2018 Issue: The Rise of Kleptocracy#January 18, 2018#In a seven-article cluster on transnational kleptocracy, analysts examine the rise of offshore finance, Malaysia’s massive 1MDB scandal, how Russia and China compare to the kleptocratic model, and more.The January issue cluster on transnational kleptocracy features:For further discussion about transnational kleptocracy, read blog posts related to this article cluster on the International Forum’s Power 3.0 blog.How does regime type affect a country’s capacity to confront terrorist attacks? Amichai Magen explains the “triple democracy advantage” in preventing and responding to terror, while Geoffrey Macdonald and Luke Waggoner argue that rising extremism in Tunisia highlights the importance of managing expectations during democratic transitions.After decades of military rule, high hopes greeted the triumph of the National League for Democracy (NLD) in Burma’s 2015 elections. Zoltan Barany assesses why these hopes have faded amid stalled reforms and brutal military assault on Burma’s Rohingya Muslim minority.In addition, in the January 2018 issue: For the complete Table of Contents, visit www.journalofdemocracy.org.Please join us for a discussion on “Democratizing China: Insights from Theory...Johan Lagerkvist is professor of Chinese language and...The National Endowment for Democracy will honor defenders... Washington, DC — The pro-democracy demonstrations...Utilizing its strong position as a dominant energy...The International Forum for Democratic Studies asked five leading experts about...
#The Rise of Kleptocracy: Power and Plunder in Putin’s Russia by Miriam Lanskoy and Dylan Myles-Primakoff in the Journal of Democracy#January 15, 2018#In the January 2018 issue of the Journal of Democracy, Miriam Lanskoy and Dylan Myles-Primakoff delve into Vladimir Putin’s Russia, where opaque financial flows and an equally murky network of ex-KGB officers, with its roots in the 1990s, come together in a distinctive system of corruption. This system serves dual purposes: Those at the top follow the imperative of self-enrichment, but they also find in corruption a highly effective tool for consolidating domestic political control and projecting power abroad. At home, omnipresent corruption makes property claims and business ventures contingent on the whims of the authorities, while keeping officials themselves permanently under the threat of selective punishment. Abroad, corruption serves as a key lever of Russian influence in other post-Soviet states, as well as a tool for undermining established democracies. Yet it also creates vulnerabilities that can make Russia prone to reckless and extreme measures. Although Russia’s kleptocracy is a self-sustaining system, it faces a growing backlash in the forms of international sanctions and domestic discontent. Dean Jackson of the International Forum for Democratic Studies spoke with Phil...In a new report by the International Forum for Democratic...As Georgia, Moldova and Ukraine look to strengthen...Carl Gershman reflects on the state of democracy in...The January 2018 issue features 7 articles on transnational kleptocracy, an...
#The Rise of Kleptocracy: A Challenge for Democracy by Christopher Walker and Melissa Aten in the Journal of Democracy#January 15, 2018#With investigative reports focusing greater attention on the lavish lifestyles and illicit finances of certain states’ officials and oligarchs, the term “kleptocracy” has become a regular feature of analysis. In the January 2018 issue of the Journal of Democracy, Christopher Walker and Melissa Aten introduce a multi-article examination of a kleptocratic resurgence that reaches from Russia to Malaysia to Equatorial Guinea, and one that poses increasing risk to democracy. Laundering both ill-gotten gains through the global financial system and their reputations through the services of “enablers” in the West, kleptocrats have found ways to successfully game the global system. In today’s era of accelerated globalization, the factors driving kleptocracy have gathered force. The world now confronts “kleptocracy 2.0,” a multifaceted threat to democracy that requires a coordinated and sophisticated transnational response. Image Credit: KeongDaGreat/Shutterstock The International Forum for Democratic Studies asked five leading experts about...In the January 2016 issue of the Journal of Democracy,...Propelled by globalization and the openness of the...2008 NED Democracy Award honors Heroes of Human Rights and Democracy in China
#Interview with Former High-Ranking North Korean Diplomat Thae Yong-ho#January 3, 2018#In November 2017, NED hosted a former high-ranking North Korean diplomat for a series of discussions to gain insights and observations about the world’s most secretive country.  Thae Yong-ho was posted in London when he defected in 2016. During his first US visit, Thae said he believed  that the North Korean system can only endure through a “reign of terror” and by blocking information about the outside world. But according to Thae, the North Korean regime is struggling as portable digital devices and easily hidden memory cards are flooding the country. Can civil society finally take root in the world’s most oppressive country?.embed-container { position: relative; padding-bottom: 56.25%; height: 0; overflow: hidden; max-width: 100%; } .embed-container iframe, .embed-container object, .embed-container embed { position: absolute; top: 0; left: 0; width: 100%; height: 100%; }Voices of Civil Society in IraqWednesday, March 25, 2015 from 12:00 PM to...Join us for a discussion with civic and religious leaders...In the wake of the 2013-14 Maidan protests and change...North Korea's Human CatastropheBy Carl GershmanThe...
#“A New Trumpet for Democracy” by NED’s Chairman Judy Shelton#December 21, 2017#Ronald Reagan’s wisdom often went unappreciated in his day. In a 1982 address to the British Parliament, he presented a strategy to confront Soviet communism and other forms of dictatorship by championing American values. Commentators deemed it “naive” and “wishful thinking”—not to mention dangerous—to talk of advancing American principles and ideals. Why provoke hostility by trumpeting the superiority of democracy?Read more of “A New Trumpet for Democracy” in The Wall Street JournalRemarks by Dr. Judy Shelton, Vice Chairman of NED. We are pleased to announce its Fall 2018 cohort of...We are thankful for Judy Shelton's leadership during...
#Shanthi Kalathil Testifies Before CECC on “The Long Arm of China: Exporting Authoritarianism with Chinese Characteristics”#December 13, 2017#Chairman Rubio, Chairman Smith, distinguished Members of the Commission, thank you for the opportunity to speak to this important topic today. It is an honor to testify before this Commission alongside such expert colleagues.Today I will address China’s outwardly directed efforts to shape expression and communication globally, and the negative implications this poses for democratic expression and discourse, even within democracies. In particular, I will discuss how the Chinese government directs and harnesses private sector activity in the Internet and technology space, as well its efforts to reshape global narratives through a range of influence activities that have typically been categorized as “soft power.”To begin with, consider a metaphor sometimes invoked to explain China’s domestic approach to the Internet, namely, that of the “walled garden.” The garden is not devoid of color: indeed, certain flowers are cultivated and allowed to bloom profusely, while those plants deemed weeds are yanked out by the root. In this way is the space pruned to fit the preferences of the master gardener.While metaphors are always imperfect, this one does convey important ideas about how the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) approaches China’s information, media and technology sector, ideas that also have relevance for its international approach. Three key aspects of its domestic “walled garden” approach are relevant here.First, the CCP has put the technology it needs into place. The so-called “Great Firewall” is dependent on an elaborately layered system of control, beginning with the technological and communications “pipes” themselves and extending to what is an increasingly advanced system of not just censorship but comprehensive surveillance. A recent BBC story noted that there are 170 million CCTV cameras in place, many enhanced with facial recognition technology, and an estimated 400 million new cameras coming online in the next three years. The Wall Street Journal reported last week about a man detained for a stray wisecrack made on a private chat on the WeChat messaging platform; government authorities can now identify citizens on the street through facial recognition, monitor all online behavior, and identify potential (or even future) dissenters and “troublemakers”. For an example of this dystopian model taken to an extreme, look no further than the Chinese province of Xinjiang, where the government tests tools like iris recognition, and constant surveillance is a fact of daily life.Second, it is not simply about the technology. Beijing relies on individuals, corporations and institutions for not just censorship and self-censorship but the proactive shaping of norms, narratives and attitudes. For instance, the Chinese government places the responsibility on private sector companies as gatekeepers to monitor and circumscribe online activity, as well as on individual users to self-censor. In addition, as a recent study noted, the government fabricates roughly 448 million social media comments a year, injecting certain narrative elements into online chatter to distract or cheerlead in order to stop the spread of information that may spur collective action. One of the study’s authors has described the overall approach as the three Fs: fear that induces self-censorship, friction that makes true information hard to find, and flooding of the information space with distraction or chaos… 1998 Democracy Award honors heroes of human rights...In this episode of Democracy Ideas, Anne-Marie Brady...The National Endowment for Democracy’s International...Ashley Esarey teaches in the Department of Political Science at the University...
#NED Celebrates International Human Rights Day#December 10, 2017#International Human Rights Day is observed by the international community every year on December 10. It commemorates the day in 1948 when the United Nations General Assembly adopted the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Starvation, loss of limbs, government persecution, near drowning – any of these would have stopped most people, but not Ji Seong-ho, a North Korean activist and NED grantee who received the Oxi Courage Award in Washington, DC, on Oct. 26. Seoul-based Transitional Justice Working Group aims to map sites of mass killings and mass burials in North Korea so that, one day, evidence can be collected and the regime can be held responsible. Learn more about the Group’s important work.Seoul-based Daily NK is one of the largest and most influential online newspapers reporting North Korea-focused news and information. The paper has broken major news stories from inside North Korea, thanks to their carefully protected network of “underground stringers” in North Korea. In May, NED interviewed In Ho Park, a cofounder of Daily NK and head of its North Korean research department, who observed that “it’s very dangerous work.” Learn more about Daily NK’s reporting.For most people, surviving a gunshot to the head, losing both your son and son-in-law to brutal murders, and being forced to flee your homeland would be grounds for giving up. But human rights champion Pierre Claver Mbonimpa isn’t most people. He received the 2017 Civil Courage Prize from the Fund for Global Human Rights in November 2017. Learn more about Pierre Claver MbonimpaAs a teenager, Youk Chhang was swept into the Khmer Rouge’s reign of terror. He experienced starvation and torture, and was forced to witness the murder of family members. Today, he helps other survivors of this violent past find some measure of justice. He received the Center for Justice and Accountability’s 2017 Judith Lee Stronach Human Rights Award in May 2017 for his work as Executive Director of the Documentation Center of Cambodia (DC-CAM), which collected hundreds of thousands of pages of documentation of crimes against humanity committed by the murderous Khmer Rouge regime. Learn more about Youk Chhang.Since 2002, the Promo-LEX Association has established itself as the premier organization fostering human rights in Moldova, including the breakaway region of Transnistria, and furthering free and fair elections in the country. Learn more about the work of Promo-LEX Association. The Voice of Freedom: Improving Radio Programs ...In the wake of the 2013-14 Maidan protests and change...He addressed the struggle for democracy and the rule...Join us for an update from leaders of two internationally-recognized...The National Endowment for Democracy is proud to honor two of these voices –...
#“Sharp Power: Rising Authoritarian Influence”: New Forum Report#December 5, 2017#“Sharp Power: Rising Authoritarian Influence,” a new report published by the International Forum for Democratic Studies, examines Chinese and Russian influence in four young democracies in Latin America and Central Europe.In recent years, China and Russia have invested significant resources in media, academic, cultural, and think tank initiatives designed to shape public opinion and perceptions around the world. These authoritarian influence efforts have traditionally been viewed by the democracies through the familiar lens of “soft power,” a concept which has become a catch-all term for forms of influence that are not “hard” in the sense of military force or economic might. Yet the authoritarian influence that has gained pace and traction in recent years, while not hard in the openly coercive sense, is not really soft, either.Rather, authoritarian influence efforts in young and vulnerable democracies are “sharp” in the sense that they pierce, penetrate, or perforate the information and political environments in the targeted countries. These regimes are not necessarily seeking to “win hearts and minds,” the common frame of reference for “soft power” efforts, but they are surely seeking to influence their target audiences by manipulating or distorting the information that reaches them.The following are key steps that can be taken to address the malign efforts by Russia and China to influence and manipulate democracies:These powerful and determined authoritarian regimes, which systematically suppress political pluralism and free expression in order to maintain power at home, are increasingly applying the same principles internationally to secure their interests.Prominent regional leaders from multiple fields—including politicians, academics, journalists, former diplomats, current government officials, and students, among others—are subtly being enticed by the Chinese government through personal interaction, with the ultimate purpose of gaining their support for China.China is more visible that ever before: It holds greater sway over the local media; it has built up strong links with the academic community, including a network of devoted scholars; and it monopolizes almost every aspect of Chinese culture in Argentina.Some observers see in the new partnership [between Russia and Peru] a strategic turn by Russia toward Latin America to avoid international marginalization and forge new alliances.The research detailed in this essay reveals many dangerous liaisons between specific political narratives employed by homegrown populists and Russian propaganda, as well as calculated efforts by China to portray itself as an ultramodern, benevolent power featuring an authoritarian political system that offers a better incubator for economic growth than liberal democracy.When comparing the functioning of soft power mechanisms of Russia and China in Slovakia, it is worth noting that Slovak relations with Russia are influenced by centuries of historical, cultural, linguistic, and other ties, which are absent as far as Slovakia’s relations with China are concerned. Image Credit: A. Aleksandravicius/Shutterstock NED President Carl Gershman rejects the argument put forth in by John Mearsheimer...The National Endowment for Democracy will honor defenders...2008 NED Democracy Award honors Heroes of Human Rights...Authors of the report, "Sharp Power": Rising Authoritarian...He addressed the struggle for democracy and the rule...Dr. Lilia Shevtsova delivered the 11th Annual Seymour Martin Lipset Lecture...
#Forum Q&A: Aurel Croissant on Coups, Civil-Military Relations, and Implications for Zimbabwe#December 4, 2017#TWEET | SHARE | PDFAurel Croissant is professor of political science at Heidelberg University in Germany, where his research focuses on democratization, authoritarianism, civil-military relations, and Asian politics. He has published over 200 articles, book chapters, monographs, and edited volumes, appearing in English, German, Russian, Spanish, and Korean. Since 2012, he has served as co-editor of  Democratization and also serves on the editorial boards of the  Asian Journal of Political Science and the  Journal of Contemporary Southeast Asian Affairs. He is currently a Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellow at the National Endowment for Democracy.In authoritarian regimes, dictators and militaries survive and endure based on a system of mutual support. When dictators become vulnerable—due to mass mobilization against them or sudden political or economic crises—what factors determine when militaries withdraw their support? In the absence of meaningful public protest amidst longstanding economic crisis, such as in Zimbabwe, what might account for a military coup? What does research tell us about the prospects for democracy in Zimbabwe?Shanthi Kalathil of the International Forum for Democratic Studies spoke with Aurel Croissant about comparative lessons on military interventions in authoritarian regimes, his research on civil-military relations, and its implications for understanding recent events in Zimbabwe. (This interview has been condensed and edited for clarity. The views and opinions expressed here do not necessarily reflect those of the National Endowment for Democracy.) Shanthi Kalathil: In Zimbabwe, even as recently as last year, many felt that the army would be unlikely to break ranks with ruling party Zanu-PF and (former president) Robert Mugabe. With all of this in the news of late, can you talk about your research on when militaries support dictators and when they oust them?Aurel Croissant: Generally, in autocracies, militaries are a key element of the ruling coalition. That is, either they are the ruler, or as in the case of Zimbabwe, they are an important supporter for the dictator, so no authoritarian regime can survive without the support of the military. For militaries to oust a dictator they need a motive, and they need opportunity. If there’s only a motive, such as they oppose  the dictator for whatever reason, but there’s no opportunity, they may stage a coup d’état, but the coup will fail. If there is opportunity but no motive, then there will be no coup.There are many different motives for militaries to oust a dictator. The most important motives are probably that military leaders feels that their personal interests or the corporate interests of the military as an organization are threatened by the dictator. In reality it’s difficult to distinguish personal from institutional motives, obviously. For example, militaries often defect from an authoritarian leader because they feel that a mass protest against the authoritarian regime may lead to the collapse of the military organization. This was obviously not the case in Zimbabwe because there was no mass protest earlier this year against Mugabe.A second motive for the military to oust a dictator might be that there is an acute political or economic crisis, and the dictator threatens to cut the military’s budget and military privilege. This also was not the case in Zimbabwe.A third motive is a succession crisis. We know from coup studies and civil-military relations research that dictators are particularly vulnerable to military coups very early and very late in their term. Very early in their term, it’s clear that dictators need time and resources to institutionalize mechanisms of “coup-proofing” and to create political institutions that solve commitment problems. Often dictators come to power through a coup which then may trigger counter-coups.Dictators also are very vulnerable to military coups when they have been long in power and are of high age, when a succession crisis comes up, or when it’s obvious to the military that there will be a succession, either from within the regime or within the ruling family.Then, the question for the military is, why should they support the successor? In personalist regimes like Zimbabwe with their inherent weak institutions, succession crises are moments of insecurity and uncertainty for military leaders and the other non-military members of the ruling coalition. There are shifting loyalties. It’s not clear if the successor will have the support from internal and external allies of the authoritarian regime, and this seems to be the case right now in Zimbabwe. But what’s pretty clear is that usually military leaders organize coups in coalition with civilian elites. And this also seems to be the case in Zimbabwe. Segments of the ruling party and part of the civilian regime coalition seem to support the military coup.In personalist regimes like Zimbabwe with their inherent weak institutions, succession crises are moments of insecurity and uncertainty for military leaders and the other non-military members of the ruling coalition.Is there a tipping point, then, when militaries withdraw their support? And what do they do next, once they withdraw support for dictators?Well, tipping points usually include mass mobilization that the regime, the police, and/or the security apparatus are unable to control or repress; sudden economic shocks; or sudden political shock like a lost war or some kind of foreign policy crisis, which is not the case here in Zimbabwe. What seems to be the case here is that this dictator is exceptionally old, and he came up with this really “weird” idea of nominating his wife as successor. It is “weird” because female political leaders find it especially difficult to find acceptance in dictatorships and, more generally, in sub-Saharan Africa. There have not been many female dictators in contemporary history, and there are also not many female government leaders in sub-Saharan Africa. There’s one in Malawi, the Central African Republic, Liberia, and that’s it.Here the tipping point seems to be the question of “how to solve the succession”, which, for whatever reason, has become an urgent and pressing issue in Zimbabwe. And one could also say that Mugabe nominating not only a member of the family, but a female member of the family, seems to have triggered resistance within the military and the non-military regime coalition. So nominating female successors is a very bad idea for dictators.Tipping points usually include mass mobilization that the regime, the police, and/or the security apparatus are unable to control or repress; sudden economic shocks; or sudden political shock like a lost war or some kind of foreign policy crisis.Why and when would the military defend or withdraw support for a dictator’s family member, or throw its support to another regime figure (such as Emmerson Mnangagwa, the former vice-president)?  Most of the time, militaries do not support family or dynastic succession in authoritarian regimes, with a handful of exceptions (including the Assads in Syria, the Kims in North Korea, and the Kabilas in the Democratic Republic of Congo). In the case of Zimbabwe, it appears that the military elites and party elites together cooperated in the attempt to prevent the family member from taking over the presidency. This is the typical scenario: When a personalist dictator tries to instill a family member as insurance that he won’t end up in prison, or be executed or exiled, the regime elites do not follow this decision. Why do militaries not support family members or dynastic regime succession?It depends on a number of factors. In the cases I mentioned where the military supports dynastic succession, the commonality seems to be that the dictator established a very elaborate system of control over the military, what is called “coup-proofing.” They create various counter-balancing forces, like the 4th Armored Division in Syria or various militias which also counter the power of the military. Second, they appoint trusted communities—family members or members of the same ethnic or religious groups—to key command posts in the military. It seems that Mugabe hasn’t done that in Zimbabwe for whatever reasons. Militaries that have been subjected to coup-proofing tend to support dynastic succession because if the family is out, they are out of top positions of power.Where dictators cannot coup-proof, there is less chance that the military will support family succession. In Egypt, for example, Mubarak was not able to fill the senior positions of the military with members of his religious minority since he wasn’t from a religious minority, and tribal affiliations were not all that important in Egypt.In these cases, the military will look for someone else to take over, either a military leader, or like in Zimbabwe, where there is a meaningful political party, someone from within the civilian elite coalition. Can coups lead to democracy in countries like Zimbabwe? And if so, under what circumstances?Coups can, of course, lead to democracy but the majority of coups do not. If you look at the data, the number of coups that have led to democracy has increased in the past 20-25 years, but the majority of coups still result in some form of renewed authoritarian rule. There are some examples of “good coups” or “democratizing coups”: Mali in 1991, Burkina Faso in 2003, Niger in 2010, but those are the exceptions.More often, coups either lead to a new authoritarian regime, or they lead to a change in leadership within an existing authoritarian regime, which is perhaps a scenario that is the most likely one in Zimbabwe right now.For a coup to lead to democratization, I think that there must be some other additional external constraints on the military. Mass mobilization seems to be one of the factors that needs to be present in order to move the military, not only towards staging a coup, but also towards institutionalizing democracy. Economic crisis, again, also seems to play a role. Most of these cases of good coups or democratizing coups were coups that took place at a time and in a country where there was strong Western linkage and strong Western leverage. This, of course, not the case with Zimbabwe, where we have strong Chinese linkage and perhaps also some Chinese leverage.More often, coups either lead to a new authoritarian regime, or they lead to a change in leadership within an existing authoritarian regime, which is perhaps a scenario that is the most likely one in Zimbabwe right now.This leads us nicely to our next question: what role do outside actors play in military support for dictators? Was China relevant to what happened in Zimbabwe?What is known is that General Chiwenga, head of the Zimbabwe Defense Forces, visited China the week before the coup, and there are close economic and political ties between China and Zimbabwe that reach back until the late 1970s, when China began to support Mugabe’s guerilla movement against the apartheid regime in South Rhodesia.In terms of trade and investment, China is one of the most important economic actors and partners of Zimbabwe. Of course, there also is close military to military cooperation between Zimbabwe and China, covering aspects like arms trade, arms imports, military assistance, and military to military exchange. China has made clear that it needs economic stability to continue with investments in Zimbabwe.I think that there is no empirical evidence to make the simple argument that “the minister of defense went to China in order to get the okay from China so that he could stage a coup.” Yet it is clear that because China is such an important military and economic partner for Zimbabwe, it seems highly unlikely that the military would stage a coup without thinking that China would at least support such a change. And because it is documented that China has emphasized its interests in political and economic stability in Zimbabwe, if the Zimbabwean military can show or demonstrate to China that the coup will lead to a stable transition, then that creates a kind of incentive for the military to organize and to stage a coup. In a hypothetical case, once there has been a transition to democracy after a coup, what factors are likely to affect successful civilian control of the military after that point? There are a number of very crucial factors. The most crucial factor is probably a united civilian elite. In order to have civilian control over the military you need common consensus among civilian elites that they do not try to court the military. Second, you need some kind of civilian mobilization, voter support, or civil society support for civilian control of the military. Third, robust institutions need to be established. In personalist regimes, the leaders do not institutionalize civilian control of the military – it’s always personal and informal. The fourth factor is how civilian leaders institutionalize their control over the military. Is it a very rapid, big-bang reform where they try to change civil-military relations overnight, or is it an incremental, gradual process? I would argue that the incremental, gradual process is a more promising approach than the swift, rapid, big-bang reform in civil-military relations.A supportive factor in the case of Zimbabwe is that this is Zimbabwe’s first coup. Militaries that do not have a tradition of military intervention in politics are easier to reform than militaries that have a tradition of intervening, of staging coups, or of forming military governments. That is actually a beneficial factor in Zimbabwe.Charles Mangongera’s piece in the Journal of Democracy, “A New Twilight in Zimbabwe: The Military vs. Democracy.”NED Vice President for Studies and Analysis Christopher Walker’s related interview with Mangongera.Tribute to Glanis Changachirere at the 2013 Democracy AwardIn her electrifying...Four African democracy activists from Democratic Republic...Prospects and Conditions for a Transition to Democracy...NED hosts "Girl Child" movie screening and discussion with Glanis Changachirere.
#New Blog: Power 3.0: Understanding Modern Authoritarian Influence#November 29, 2017#Authoritarian regimes are increasingly using the openness of democratic societies as a vehicle to consolidate and expand their power at home and abroad. The prevailing wisdom during much of the post-Cold War period assumed that authoritarian regimes’ exposure to democratic values and norms would encourage political reform at home, but in many respects, the opposite has occurred. Democracies around the world find themselves at greater risk due to authoritarian exploitation of open media, financial systems, and challenges to democratic norms and principles. Authoritarians also are using a sharpened version of soft power to project their influence, and democracies have been slow to respond.In the blog’s inaugural post, “Reevaluating Authoritarianism in an Era of Globalization​,” ​International Forum for Democratic Studies Director Shanthi Kalathil explains that Power 3.0 will examine:Read Carl Gershman's Remarks on authoritarianism in the Milwaukee-Wisconsin...The April 2018 edition of the Forum newsletter explores...As we celebrated World Press Freedom Day, the Center...The International Forum for Democratic Studies' October...The “internet of things” is made up of device networks...International Forum for Democratic Studies Executive Director Christopher Walker...
#Forum Q&A: Jonathon Morgan on Tracking Digital Disinformation#November 20, 2017#TWEET | SHARE | PDFJonathon Morgan (@jonathonmorgan) is the CEO of NewKnowledge.io, a data science firm dedicated to defending the integrity of public discourse by working with governments to protect citizens from computational propaganda and by helping brands identify and counter information attacks. Jonathon has spent the past twelve years building new technologies and digital products. Previously, he has published research with the Brookings Institution and served as a Special Advisor to the State Department; he also leads Data for Democracy, a volunteer collective of 1,800 data scientists and technologists.As the challenge of authoritarian disinformation on the internet has become more salient, a community of researchers and technologists has formed to assess the problem and craft solutions. Various techniques for social media analysis have shed light on the issue from various angles. Learning from the fight against online extremism, policymakers and civil society are beginning to apply past lessons to digital disinformation.Dean Jackson of the International Forum for Democratic Studies spoke with Jonathon Morgan about his work on understanding ISIS’s Twitter following, the best ways to study the spread of Russian disinformation on social media, and how civil society and technologists can combine with other stakeholders to preserve the online public sphere. (This interview has been condensed and edited for clarity. The views and opinions expressed here do not necessarily reflect those of the National Endowment for Democracy.) Dean Jackson: I wanted to start out by asking you about a March 2017 piece you wrote for Data for Democracy, an online community of civic tech activists you created in late 2016. In that piece, you discuss Russian amplification of online purveyors of disinformation, extremist far-right internet communities, and even secessionist movements.  How would you describe, in broad strokes, the relationship between Russian information operations and extremist far-right online activity? Jonathon Morgan: I think the interests of the extremist far-right and the Russian state can be opportunistically aligned. From the Russian perspective, their overarching strategy seems to be selling discord, finding vulnerabilities, finding existing discord, finding small pockets of real polarization, amplifying them, and pushing on pressure points and then seeing what breaks. We see a lot of ideas in extremist far-right communities in less moderated parts of the internet that bubble up in these little meme factories before transitioning into more mainstream spaces where they’re ultimately amplified by likely state-driven networks with a high degree of automation. That level of automation and that level of sophistication is usually the thing that signals that there’s somebody grown-up in the room and somebody with more resources to bring to bear, which is more in state-actor territory.From the Russian perspective, their overarching strategy seems to be selling discord, finding vulnerabilities, finding existing discord, finding small pockets of real polarization, amplifying them, and pushing on pressure points and then seeing what breaks.How are you able to identify if the actor you suspect is behind more sophisticated attempts? Could you give me a very quick crash course?There are a few different types of things that are important to identify. One is actually injecting new language into a community by forcing some conversation. And that manifests in the ways that you would expect: the community actually starts to use different sorts of language over time or uses words in a different way. Once you find the set of accounts that are forcing the issue and you scratch the surface a little bit, it turns out that most of them have all the hallmarks of persona accounts—accounts that are sock puppets or that may be a single human operator who might manage many hundreds or sometimes thousands of these accounts. They operate them like a human, but they are trying to orchestrate and manufacture social consensus by manually spreading messages into a space. So that’s one type of actor that we identify.The second [factor] is sort of more pure automation. These are basically spam bots that, depending on the platform dynamics, are there to amplify the content of the personas and sock puppets. Then, they ultimately cast a wider net and make it seem as if the social consensus is actually quite broad, so that every time you’re in a particular type of conversation, you hear a certain point of view from a certain perspective and even the same language. So it starts to become absorbed into the larger conversation. They move  from seeding it and amplifying it to ultimately trying to infect the broader population with the ideas that they want to spread. Those are the big things that we look for. And that type of orchestration requires software systems that can operate at platform scale, like at Facebook-size scale, which makes it difficult to imagine the proverbial “guy in his mom’s basement” who could be behind attacks of that sophistication. You’ve been involved in creating Hamilton 68, which is a German Marshall Fund-supported project devoted to tracking Russian influence over social media. Can you tell us a little bit more about that and the techniques it uses to eliminate the role that Russian social media plays in online discourse in the communities you’ve analyzed? What has the project found so far?That project is in conjunction with a few really smart domain experts who understand both the larger context of Russian influence operations and also the dynamics of social media and how different online platforms are manipulated, Twitter in particular. My colleagues on that are Clint Watts, J.M. Berger, and Andrew Weisberd, and it involves a combination of multiple techniques. Previous research conducted by J.M. and myself, for instance, focused on ISIS and other extremist groups trying to manipulate public discourse on Twitter. We developed some techniques for determining who matters in a conversation… Using some of those techniques, we’ve identified a subset of accounts that we’re very confident are core to furthering the Russian narrative in response to mainstream events. We’ve been monitoring those accounts, analyzing their language, breaking down the main ideas, and representing them in a way that’s hopefully consumable by the public.What we saw is that there’s occasionally a lot of focus on what Russia is trying to accomplish with this larger operation that they ran during 2016 and are still running today. But we didn’t see anybody focusing on what was happening every day and the daily output of these types of accounts. It’s sometimes just having a quick resource for understanding what that conversation is or what that perspective is, which is really valuable. That was Clint’s big idea and he brought the right folks to the table, and we had some domain experts with the technical chops to make sure that we put together a package in a way that was easy for somebody to drive by and see what we’ve talked about. I understand there are three tiers of accounts that the product tracks?Right, we were also trying to understand the relationship between the overt, state-sponsored media narrative and the larger media narrative that they are trying to drive. That’s through official accounts, state-sponsored publications like RT and Sputnik, and then what we call covert influence, which are accounts that walk and talk like every day Americans, but are in fact coordinating around a message that’s consistent with what the official state-sponsored accounts are publishing. So there’s this attributed/unattributed, covert/overt approach that I think really speaks to the sophistication of the actor, in that they can operate on multiple platforms using different tactics that are appropriate for driving a narrative across the entire country.We were trying to understand the relationship between the overt, state-sponsored media narrative and the larger media narrative that they are trying to drive.Going back in time a little bit, in 2015, you co-authored a report for Brookings called the “ISIS Twitter Census.” Today, a lot of your work focuses on the extremist far-right and not Islamist extremism.  What is it about these two groups that lends itself to similar forms of analysis? What’s always been difficult about the way that people want to fight with groups like ISIS or other kinds of violent extremist groups is that it’s really difficult to know when you’re winning a war of ideas. And what that led us to do was look at the mechanics of online dialogue. What does it actually mean to change the conversation? How can you measure the difference in conversation today versus yesterday versus last week versus last month? Can you measure the amount of ideology that’s present in a community? Could you directly observe the process of radicalization and what that would look like? So we started to explore a lot of techniques and building technologies that might allow us to do that.Once we got down to that mechanical level, it started to become clear that ideology was pretty much, from a technical perspective, a strong deviation from the mean. So you can, from our point of view, be an extremist about anything: we like to joke that there are extremist Philadelphia Eagles fans, extremist Justin Bieber fans, and extremist fans of House of Cards. I think that none of those things are problems. We expect people to have an especially passionate, almost uncomfortably passionate, attachment to things that operate in a cultural space. That’s not abnormal, but when those things are associated with ideas in groups that are prone to political violence, then that’s the type of extremism that we’re interested in observing and ultimately combating. And because we’re looking at it more on a mechanical level and a foundational level, that applies to anybody. We see the same tactics, same movement, same shifts in ideology over time so that you can say, here’s an ideology that we’re concerned about. How is that ideology infecting a larger population? And how is dynamic changing over time? Who are the primary actors? Who’s influencing the conversation? What’s the likelihood that it’ll lead to violence? These are all questions that we can answer in theory, about any group, but it was really spurred by this interest in having a more objective, outcome-focused approach to countering extremist groups like ISIS. The world we live in now looks much different than what we were promised in the 1990s when internet access was first expanding rapidly. I want to ask: Can we salvage the internet? Is the relationship between the internet and political freedom always going to be increasingly tenuous? Can we get back to where we thought we were going to be? The answer is yes, I think we can salvage this, but the first step is accepting that we have a different internet than we were expecting. The internet that we were expecting was an almost purely democratic system, where the wisdom of the crowd pushed the best ideas to the top of the pile.I don’t think that’s the reality that we live in. The distribution of information is now governed by effectively a cartel. We have two or three media organizations controlling the flow of information, and not just disseminating it freely person to person, but interjecting their own ethics and their own editorial perspective through the algorithms that they write that choose what information they surface to us. We need to think about how the public, how civil society, and how the government interacts with the system that operates in that way. And I think it’s a difficult conversation, it’s one the tech industry doesn’t want to have, and it’s one that government and civil society don’t really know how to have. And we only focus on it in times of crisis, like when it has been manipulated and exploited, such as in 2016. As much as I’d like to cling to the idea that information should flow freely point-to-point, person-to-person, and that the best ideas evolve organically from all members participating equally in fluid discussion, that’s just not how it turned out.I think we have to accept the reality and accept the situation at hand, and then think about how we want to share information as a society in the same way that we did when we started broadcasting news directly into people’s homes via television, or the same way that we hold other forms of information dissemination to a higher standard than being able to publish whatever they want. I think that’s a real sea change. Technologists need to accept that the internet’s not what they wanted, and the public may need to be educated about the way that they consume information. We’re really the first generation that has had to deal with this and grapple with these questions. We’ll get better over the next five or ten years, but the conversation is starting and I hope that civil society, government, and the tech industry can have it in good faith.We have two or three media organizations controlling the flow of information, and not just disseminating it freely person to person, but interjecting their own ethics and their own editorial perspective through the algorithms that they write that choose what information they surface to us.Your website has an intriguing tagline, “AI for Cognitive Security.” That term, cognitive security, is one that I see more and more and I wondered if maybe you could explain what cognitive security is, what you’re securing, what you’re securing us from, and how AI can help with that?Cognitive security emerged to encompass this idea that we need to protect our information systems in the same way that we protect our networking systems. There’s this idea of cybersecurity that’s effectively, don’t break into my house, or I’m going to try prevent you from breaking into my house. I think cognitive security, in this context, is a lot more about “don’t manipulate my community.” And as a society, we accept certain types of manipulation. We’re more than comfortable with public debate, we’re more than comfortable with advertising and marketing. We understand that sometimes that’s subtle and subversive, but we’ve come to a consensus that it’s okay. But what the reaction to the election cycle in 2016 in the U.S. shows is that we’re not comfortable with actors pretending to be human beings and pretending that there is a ground swell of support for ideas. We don’t want systems imitating humans in a way that is unattributed. Especially when the systems are controlled by actors outside of our own political system. Right, particularly in that case, that’s a bridge too far. So we decided that that’s not okay. And ultimately, that’s what we’re protecting. We’re protecting citizens and we’re protecting institutions and corporations from being manipulated by this kind of coordinated, automated, and orchestrated activity that is difficult to detect, unattributed, and usually counter to the public interest. The way that AI supports that is that these are fairly sophisticated operations, they operate on multiple platforms, and the dynamic of these campaigns is always changing. You almost need to be in a thousand different places at once to observe it happening. AI can directly observe small communities, can observe dozens of different communities at the same time, can understand the dynamics of the relationships between individuals, and can understand the language that those communities are using to describe the world in that perspective. It helps see manipulation at a scale that’s too large for any one person to observe directly. That’s why AI techniques are so effective: because it is difficult for any one person to observe directly. So it takes the 10,000 foot view?It’s as if you could rise above and look down on the Facebook and Twitter ecosystems, or the global social ecosystem, and observe how it’s being shifted and influenced, then manipulated in ways that wouldn’t happen if it were just patterns of human beings communicating with each other in a reasonable and normal social way. “Distinguishing Disinformation from Propaganda, ‘Fake News,’ and Misinformation,” an International Forum issue brief by Dean Jackson.Dean Jackson’s July 2017 interview with Phil Howard on “Computational Propaganda’s Challenge to Democracy.”International Forum Director Shanthi Kalathil’s March 2017 report on China’s influence in the information space for the Center for International Media Assistance, “Beyond the Great Firewall: How China Became a Global Information Power.”Nathaniel Persily’s 2016 Journal of Democracy article, “Can Democracy Survive the Internet?”National Endowment for Democracy Vice President for Studies & Analysis Christopher Walker’s interviews on Russian disinformation and Chinese propaganda with Peter Pomerantsev and Anne-Marie Brady, respectively.The International Forum for Democratic Studies asks four leading experts about...The June 2018 edition of the Forum newsletter explores...The International Forum for Democratic Studies asked...The International Forum for Democratic Studies assesses...The March 2019 edition of the Forum newsletter features...Dean Jackson of the International Forum for Democratic Studies spoke with Maria...
#The Meaning of Sharp Power: How Authoritarian States Project Influence#November 16, 2017#Drawing on the International Forum for Democratic Studies report From ‘Soft Power’to ‘Sharp Power’: Rising Authoritarian Influence in the Democratic World (December 2017), NED’s Christopher Walker and Jessica Ludwig discuss how Russia and China’s authoritarian forms of overseas influence activities prompt a revisiting of “soft power” in an article published by Foreign Affairs. The democracies’ complacency concerning the evolution of malign, sharp power has been informed by their reliance on the soft power paradigm. The conceptual vocabulary that has been used since the Cold War’s end no longer seems adequate to the contemporary situation.Shanthi Kalathil testified before the U.S.-China Economic and Security Review...Donald K. Emmerson is director of the Southeast Asia...The International Forum for Democratic Studies at The...Minxin Pei is the Tom and Margot Pritzker ’72..."Russia's Transition to Autocracy: The Implications for World Politics," is...
#The Big Question: What Is the Relationship Between Kleptocracy and Authoritarianism?#November 16, 2017#TWEET | SHARE | PDFStable and secure democratic institutions are widely believed to curb kleptocratic practices, as they inherently protect fundamental measures of accountability such as judicial independence, a free press, and a vibrant civil society. While some young or struggling democracies, such as Brazil, exhibit kleptocratic tendencies, the worst kleptocracies in the world—such as Angola, Azerbaijan, Russia, and Equatorial Guinea—fall squarely in the authoritarian category. Yet the connection between authoritarianism and kleptocracy is not simple, and invites additional scrutiny.The International Forum for Democratic Studies asked five leading experts about the relationship between authoritarianism and kleptocracy. (Their answers have been edited for length and clarity, and do not necessarily reflect the views of the National Endowment for Democracy.)State-directed kleptocracy is this century’s brand of authoritarianism, but it is critical to understand that kleptocracy and authoritarianism are mutually supportive and reinforcing activities designed to achieve total control.-Heather A. Conley, Center for Strategic and International StudiesHeather A. Conley is senior vice president for Europe, Eurasia, and the Arctic and director of the Europe Program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS). From 2001 to 2005, she served as deputy assistant secretary of state in the Bureau for European and Eurasian Affairs with responsibilities for U.S. bilateral relations with the countries of northern and central Europe. She is the author of The Kremlin Playbook: Understanding Russian Influence in Central and Eastern Europe.State-directed kleptocracy is this century’s brand of authoritarianism, but it is critical to understand that kleptocracy and authoritarianism are mutually supportive and reinforcing activities designed to achieve total control.  An authoritarian leader and his or her inner circle can secure state-owned and private assets through kleptocratic means, and kleptocratic means can secure control over key government and democratic institutions.In our 2016 report, The Kremlin Playbook, the interplay between kleptocracy (economic capture) and authoritarian behavior (political capture) is described as an “unvirtuous cycle.” When complete, the unvirtuous cycle leads to state capture, which renders a state unable to conduct independent policy action that deviates from the interests of kleptocrats, authoritarians, or the joining of the two (which in this case is the Kremlin).  The enabler of this unvirtuous cycle is corruption, which tragically thrives by using the financial institutions and legal frameworks of advanced democracies.This is the reason today’s modern authoritarian and kleptocratic leaders and their practices are particularly devastating.  Not only does this form of kleptocratic governance – which the Kremlin describes as “sovereign or managed democracy” – challenge the international order, it also devastates the credibility, desirability and moral authority of the liberal democratic model itself.Fortunately, there are two effective policy antidotes to break the cycle of the mutuality between kleptocracy and authoritarianism and, thankfully, these antidotes are at the heart of how liberal democracies function: transparency and accountability.The relationship between authoritarianism, globalization, and kleptocracy changes depending upon whether elites are looking inward into their own polities, or outward into the international community.-Alexander Cooley, Barnard CollegeAlexander Cooley is the Claire Tow Professor of Political Science at Barnard College and Director of Columbia University’s Harriman Institute. His research examines how external actors have shaped the development and sovereignty of the former Soviet states, with a focus on Central Asia and the Caucasus. He is the author of Dictators without Borders: Power and Money in Central Asia. He tweets @CooleyOnEurasia. In Central Asia and parts of Eurasia, the relationship between authoritarianism, globalization, and kleptocracy changes depending upon whether elites are looking inward into their own polities, or outward into the international community. On the one hand, these authoritarians continue to protect their control over state-related resources, industries, and financial flows that provide the material basis for their personal enrichment. They actively conceal their familial looting of the state through the use of secret shell companies and restrict the activities of foreign-funded media or civil society that might expose these activities and otherwise hold them accountable.On the other hand, when looking outwards, these same authoritarians use their ill-begotten wealth to cultivate dense networks of transnational ties in order to secure international political allies and enhance their reputations as respected global citizens. The very wealth that they acquire allows them to purchase luxury properties abroad, spend lavishly on PR firms and lobbyists to influence Western politicians and knowledge centers, and fund charities and cultural organizations that will showcase them as global philanthropists, rather than as local autocrats.21st century authoritarianism cannot be dissociated from kleptocracy.  They have tied the knot, and this elegant couple, in its interactions with the free world, defines the geopolitical configuration of our times.-Charles Davidson, Hudson InstituteCharles Davidson is the executive director of the Kleptocracy Initiative at the Hudson Institute. He is also publisher and CEO of The American Interest, which he co-founded  with Francis Fukuyama in 2005, along with partners Josef Joffe and Walter Russell Mead. Davidson co-founded the think tank Global Financial Integrity in 2006 and is its former Board Chair. He also produced the documentary We’re Not Broke that premiered at the Sundance Film Festival in 2012. Authoritarian Russia invades Ukraine, authoritarian China threatens militarily.  Both countries exert all sorts of soft power nouveau influence, which has seemingly reached a culmination, for now, in significant influence on the most recent presidential election in the United States. Beyond the salient national security threats posed by the Russia/China axis, authoritarianism has been a growth industry for at least the last 10 years or so, entrenching itself, sharing best practices, and actively working to undermine free and democratic nations.There is an extraordinary dimension to the authoritarian surge in this early 20th century. All the authoritarian regimes at war with freedom and democracy around the world are structured along a kleptocratic model whereby those who govern, usually a very small group, family, or even individual, loot their own country, and store the proceeds in free and democratic nations whose rule of law serves as a critical element of asset protection.21st century authoritarianism cannot be dissociated from kleptocracy.  They have tied the knot, and this elegant couple, in its interactions with the free world, defines the geopolitical configuration of our times.One of the best ways to fight kleptocracy is to institutionalize a genuine democracy in which the people can throw rotten rulers out of office and the judicial system can act independently to go after public officials who have erased the line between public interest and private greed.-Larry Diamond, Hoover InstitutionLarry Diamond is a senior fellow at the Hoover Institution and at the Freeman Spogli Institute for International Studies, where he also directs the Center for Democracy, Development, and the Rule of Law.  He is the founding co-editor of the Journal of Democracy and also serves as Senior Consultant at the International Forum for Democratic Studies of the National Endowment for Democracy. He tweets @LarryDiamond  and blogs at “Democracy Square.”Kleptocracy is literally rule by thieves.  It is a type of political system in which the rulers systematically plunder the wealth of the country for their own personal benefit, while making use of international connections to perpetuate, protect, launder, and enjoy their ill-gotten gains. In theory a democracy can also be a kleptocracy, but there are powerful reasons why the most extreme and obvious kleptocracies of the world are invariably authoritarian regimes.By definition, a liberal democracy’s strong rule of law and reasonably effective mechanisms of accountability prevent and rule out systematic plunder by the country’s rulers. Certainly, there have been many instances historically of tentative and low-quality democracies that were pervasively corrupt.  As with any concept, kleptocracy is slippery, and it is hard to know where to draw the line between kleptocracy and a system that is simply highly corrupt.  But different measures of corruption show the same stunning pattern.  Most of the least corrupt countries of the world are liberal democracies.  And almost all of the most corrupt (and generally, we can say, kleptocratic) countries of the world are authoritarian regimes.The data tell a compelling story.  One of the best ways to fight kleptocracy is to institutionalize a genuine democracy in which the people can throw rotten rulers out of office and the judicial system can act independently to go after public officials who have erased the line between public interest and private greed.It is urgent to look at kleptocracy this way: That something smells at the top has not been lost on ordinary people in Western democracies, who have seen elite fortunes roaring along as theirs stagnated and whose faith in public institutions has plummeted.– Janine R. Wedel, George Mason UniversityJanine R. Wedel, University Professor in the Schar School of Policy and Government at George Mason University, is an award-winning author who writes about governance, corruption, influence elites, and accountability through the lens of an anthropologist. She is the author of Unaccountable: How the Establishment Corrupted Our Finances, Freedom, and Politics and Created an Outsider Class and Shadow Elite: How the World’s New Power Brokers Undermine Democracy, Government, and the Free Market. She tweets @janinewedel.It is difficult to imagine a kleptocratic regime that doesn’t depend on authoritarian means to extract resources, or an authoritarian regime that doesn’t use expansive power to boost a leader’s personal portfolio. But kleptocracy is nearly always associated with repressive states and that, I believe, is a mistake. As a social anthropologist studying influence elites, I have watched a subtler kind of kleptocratic behavior take hold in Western democratic states. Call this kleptocracy in a Brooks Brothers suit. Is the German head of state who advocated a Russian-German pipeline, only to leave office and, within weeks, take a lucrative job with the Russian pipeline not behaving like a kleptocrat? Some might argue that such actions are not kleptocratic, as they do not involve direct appropriation of state funds or assets.I argue that among the most potent assets a leader has is the power embodied in the office, especially in democracies, and that that power endures after the leadership role ends.  It is urgent to look at kleptocracy this way: That something smells at the top has not been lost on ordinary people in Western democracies, who have seen elite fortunes roaring along as theirs stagnated and whose faith in public institutions has plummeted. Elites, who have generally ignored their plight, are prime practitioners in the new, systemic corruption that has arisen over the past several decades. Their corruption has helped foment the anti-establishment movements we see today, the dynamics and repercussions of which threaten democracy. “The Big Question: Kleptocracy and Russia’s Foreign Policy”Melissa Aten’s July 2018 Q&A with Rafael Marques de Morais on “Kleptocracy in Angola”Melissa Aten’s June 2017 Q&A with Judge Mark Wolf on “Kleptocracy and the International Anti-Corruption Court” Image Credit: Sajinka2/Pixabay The democratic struggles that have been waged in this region over the past decades,...Read Carl Gershman's Remarks on authoritarianism in...Authors of the report, "Sharp Power": Rising Authoritarian...The July 2018 issue features an eight-article cluster on rising illiberalism...
#North Korean NED Grantee Ji Seong-ho honored with Oxi Courage Award#November 3, 2017#North Korean defector-turned-activist Ji Seong-ho received the 2017 Oxi Day Foundation Oxi Courage Award at a gala celebration in Washington, DC on October 26. After barely surviving a terrible accident in which he lost a leg and a hand in North Korea, Ji escaped the Hermit Kingdom and went on to establish and direct NED Grantee Now, Action and Unity for Human Rights, an organization that raises awareness about the dire human rights situation in North Korea. He told his own harrowing tale of famine, tragedy, survival, and escape from North Korea as he accepted his prize from NED President Carl Gershman, who sits on the Board of the Oxi Day Foundation..embed-container { position: relative; padding-bottom: 56.25%; height: 0; overflow: hidden; max-width: 100%; } .embed-container iframe, .embed-container object, .embed-container embed { position: absolute; top: 0; left: 0; width: 100%; height: 100%; }In Ho Park is the head of North Korean research at...Julieta Montaño, NED grantee of the Bolivian...On Thursday, May 4, Youk Chhang, Executive Director...National Endowment for Democracy President Carl Gershman...Enlightened post Cold War Initiative for Peace Building and Democracy: Enhancing...
#NED Welcomes Fall 2017 Reagan-Fascell Fellows#October 31, 2017#The National Endowment for Democracy (NED) is pleased to announce its Fall 2017 cohort of Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellows. In residence are leading democracy activists, practitioners, journalists, and scholars from Ghana, Nigeria, Germany, Azerbaijan, Philippines, Egypt, Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Hungary, and Thailand. A list of the 2017-2018 Fellows and their full bios can be found here.Named in honor of President Ronald Reagan and the late Congressman Dante Fascell (D-Fl.), whose bipartisan vision led to NED’s founding, the Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellows Program seeks to expand the knowledge, broaden the perspectives, build the capacity, and boost the morale of some of the world’s most committed and courageous democracy advocates. Based at the International Forum for Democratic Studies, NED’s research and publications arm, in Washington, D.C., the Reagan-Fascell program has enabled over 260 fellows from more than 90 countries to deepen their understanding of democracy and enhance their ability to work toward democratic change. Ms. Nana Ama Agyemang Asante   |   Ghana “Tackling Exclusion of Women’s Voices in Ghanaian Society: The Role of the Media”October 1, 2017–February 28, 2018Ms. Nana Ama Agyemang Asante is co-host of the “Citi Breakfast Show” (CBS), a highly popular, public-interest radio show broadcast daily on the Accra-based station Citi FM. She is also deputy online editor of Citi FM’s news website, www.citifmonline.com, supervising the publication of timely stories and helping to direct national attention toward a range of social issues, including minority rights. During her fellowship, Ms. Asante is writing a report on the role of the Ghanaian media in encouraging women to participate in democratic processes. Mr. Oludotun Babayemi   |   Nigeria  “Digital Technologies and Accountability: The Case of West Africa”October 1, 2017–February 28, 2018Mr. Oludotun Babayemi is co-founder of Connected Development (CODE), an Abuja-based organization that uses online and offline tools to promote accountability and transparency in Nigeria. Through CODE’s Follow the Money project, he and his team track and advocate for the disbursement of funds for local communities. Mr. Babayemi is also lead development consultant with Clonehouse Nigeria, an organization that offers training on monitoring and evaluation. During his fellowship, Mr. Babayemi is working to produce a handbook on the potential of digital technologies to promote citizen engagement in democratic accountability. Dr. Aurel Croissant   |   Germany   “Routes to Reform: Civil-Military Relations and Democracy in the Third Wave”October 1, 2017–February 28, 2018Dr. Aurel Croissant is professor of political science at Heidelberg University in Germany, where his research focuses on democratization, authoritarianism, civil-military relations, and Asian politics. Since 2012, he has served as co-editor of the journal Democratization and also serves on the editorial board of the Asian Journal of Political Science and the Journal of Contemporary Southeast Asian Affairs. During his fellowship, Dr. Croissant is continuing his work on a book-length study of the many ways in which military officers constrain the authority of democratically elected civilian leaders.  Mr. Turgut Gambar   |   Azerbaijan   “The Role of Social Media in Democracy Movements”October 1, 2017–February 28, 2018Mr. Turgut Gambar is a founding board member of the NIDA Civic Movement, a Baku-based organization that seeks to promote democratization in Azerbaijan through nonviolence. He also helped to found the OL Youth Movement, a group that engages youth in democracy building, where he was part of the team that launched the Free Thought University Project, an online platform for lectures, debates, and discussion on politics, economy, and law.  During his fellowship, Mr. Gambar is analyzing the role of social media in advancing democratic struggles in authoritarian settings. Ms. Maxine Tanya Hamada   |   Philippines   “Crossover Leadership in Public Fiscal Management: A Political Strategy for Performance and Participation in Governance in the Philippines” October 1, 2017–February 28, 2018Ms. Maxine Tanya Hamada served most recently as the executive director of the Institute for Leadership, Empowerment and Democracy or iLEAD, a Philippine think tank focused on public fiscal responsibility, meaningful devolution, and defending civic spaces.  She is currently a member of the steering committee of the World Movement for Democracy.  During her fellowship, Ms. Hamada is exploring the role of civil society in democratic change and working to produce an engagement strategy paper for Philippine activists on public financial management at the local and national levels. Ms. Aya Hijazi   |   Egypt/United States   “The Average Citizen’s Role in Reshaping the World” October 1, 2017–February 28, 2018Ms. Aya Hijazi is an Egyptian-American children’s rights advocate who, along with her husband, Mohamed Hassanein, founded the Cairo-based Belady Foundation (My Country: An Island for Humanity) in 2013 to support Egyptian street children, steer them away from the street culture of violence, and reintegrate them into society through counseling, education, art, music, and skill building.  During her fellowship, Ms. Hijazi is working to reestablish the Belady Foundation, and is focusing on civil society and the plight of political prisoners in Egypt.  Mr. Khalil Parsa   |   Afghanistan   “Combating Corruption in Afghanistan”April 1, 2017–March 31, 2018Mr. Khalil Parsa is founding director of Supporting Organization for Afghanistan Civil Society, a NED grantee organization that builds the capacity of citizens and civil society organizations to report corruption. As head of the Herat Citizens Advocacy committee and as provincial director of Herat province’s Monitoring and Evaluation Committee, he has coordinated governmental and nongovernmental efforts in fighting against corruption in the region.  During his fellowship, he is working on a policy memorandum delineating steps that the Afghan government, civil society, and international community may pursue in combating corruption in Afghanistan. Mr. Ashif Rabi   |   Bangladesh “Developing a Secure Online Forum for Free Expression in Bangladesh”August 1, 2016–November 30, 2017Mr. Ashif Rabi is a Bangladeshi journalist, TV personality, radio jockey, and blogger working to strengthen civic engagement and freedom of expression in the face of rising extremism and state repression. He is the former editor of Bicchu, a satirical Bengali-language cartoon magazine, and has published numerous blogposts on a range of topics, including religious tolerance and cultural diversity. During his fellowship, he is exploring the creation of an online forum where Bangladeshi citizens may discuss political concerns without fear of persecution.  Dr. Gabor Scheiring   |   Hungary/United Kingdom“The Rise of Illiberalism: A Framework for Comparative Analysis”October 1, 2017–February 28, 2018Dr. Gabor Scheiring is a political economist and democratic activist currently working as a research associate in the department of sociology at the University of Cambridge. He is also chairman of the Progressive Hungary Foundation, a think tank dedicated to progressive policy research and civic education.  During his fellowship, Dr. Scheiring is developing a comparative framework for examining the socioeconomic origins of the rise of illiberalism in Hungary, the Czech Republic, and Poland. Ms. Rodjaraeg Wattanapanit   |   Thailand  “Democratic Ideals through Critical Thinking and Debate-Training” October 1, 2017–February 28, 2018Ms. Rodjaraeg Wattanapanit is a co-founder of Book Re:public, which promotes freedom of expression and fosters the free exchange of ideas by providing a space for public dialogues on social issues. A civil society activist for the past 25 years, she began her career with CARE International, working on a project to support livelihoods in northern Thailand.  During her fellowship, Ms. Wattanapanit is developing a critical thinking and debate-training curriculum as a tool to improve Thai civil society leaders’ skills in interacting with target groups. For media inquiries, please contact Jane Riley Jacobsen at info@ned.org.  For further information on fellowship opportunities at the National Endowment for Democracy, visit https://www.ned.org/fellowships.
#NED Participates in 21st Forum 2000 Conference#October 18, 2017#The Forum 2000 Foundation pursues the legacy of Václav Havel by supporting the values of democracy and respect for human rights, assisting the development of civil society, and encouraging religious, cultural and ethnic tolerance. Carl Gershman, National Endowment for Democracy President, and Christopher Walker, Vice President for Studies and Analysis, participated in panels. Defending Democracy featuring Carl Gershman, Penda Mbow, Adam Michnik, Jorge Quiroga Ramírez,  Leyla Yunusova, Šimon Pánek, .embed-container { position: relative; padding-bottom: 56.25%; height: 0; overflow: hidden; max-width: 100%; } .embed-container iframe, .embed-container object, .embed-container embed { position: absolute; top: 0; left: 0; width: 100%; height: 100%; }.embed-container { position: relative; padding-bottom: 56.25%; height: 0; overflow: hidden; max-width: 100%; } .embed-container iframe, .embed-container object, .embed-container embed { position: absolute; top: 0; left: 0; width: 100%; height: 100%; }Memorial Tribute Honoring the Life and Work of Vaclav HavelIn this episode of Democracy Ideas, Peter Pomerantsev...The January 2019 edition of the Forum newsletter features...North Korea's Human CatastropheBy Carl GershmanThe...The Washington Post editorial board discussed the findings of Authoritarianism...
#Issue Brief: Distinguishing Disinformation from Propaganda, Misinformation, and “Fake News”#October 17, 2017#TWEET | SHARE | PDFDisinformation is a relatively new word. Most observers trace it back to the Russian word dezinformatsiya, which Soviet planners in the 1950s defined as “dissemination (in the press, on the radio, etc.) of false reports intended to mislead public opinion.” Others suggest that the earliest use of the term originated in 1930s Nazi Germany. In either case, it is much younger (and less commonly used) than ‘propaganda,’ which originated in the 1600s and generally connotes the selective use of information for political effect.Whether and to what degree these terms overlap is subject to debate. Some define propaganda as the use of non-rational arguments to either advance or undermine a political ideal, and use disinformation as an alternative name for undermining propaganda. Others consider them to be separate concepts altogether. One popular distinction holds that disinformation also describes politically motivated messaging designed explicitly to engender public cynicism, uncertainty, apathy, distrust, and paranoia, all of which disincentivize citizen engagement and mobilization for social or political change. “Misinformation,” meanwhile, generally refers to the inadvertent sharing of false information.Analysts generally agree that disinformation is always purposeful and not necessarily composed of outright lies or fabrications. It can be composed of mostly true facts, stripped of context or blended with falsehoods to support the intended message, and is always part of a larger plan or agenda. In the Russian context, observers have described its use to pursue Moscow’s foreign policy goals through a “4D” offensive: dismiss an opponent’s claims or allegations, distort events to serve political purposes, distract from one’s own activities, and dismay those who might otherwise oppose one’s goals.Analysts generally agree that disinformation is always purposeful and not necessarily composed of outright lies or fabrications. It can be composed of mostly true facts, stripped of context or blended with falsehoods to support the intended message, and is always part of a larger plan or agenda.”The reemerging interest in disinformation is not because such techniques are novel. There are similarities between the contemporary 4D model and, for example, Soviet active measures. Rather, a growing consensus asserts that while the use of disinformation is not new, the digital revolution has greatly enhanced public vulnerability to manipulation by information—a trend which is predicted to continue.In part, these changes have been wrought by the advent of new social media platforms and their growing dominance over advertising revenues. This shift in the media funding environment has weakened traditional media gatekeepers, changed incentives for content providers, and promoted the rise of unprofessional and/or unscrupulous outlets capable of drawing large audiences at a low cost. As digital advertising assumes an ever-larger role in shaping news consumption, targeted advertising allows for more sophisticated forms of propaganda: for example, in September of 2017, Facebook disclosed that roughly 3,000 ads related to divisive US political issues were purchased by a network of 470 accounts and pages suspected to be run out of Russia. The company says that at least a quarter of those ads were geographically targeted. Twitter later deleted two hundred accounts linked to those same Facebook accounts and pages and revealed that in 2016, the Russian state-funded broadcaster RT spent $274,100 on advertising targeting users in the United States.Research suggests the total scale of “low quality political information” on those platforms during the 2016 US elections was much larger, particularly in swing states. The degree of Russian influence on this market for digital disinformation is unknown; post-election, researchers are launching new efforts to track and analyze it.Although there is no universal definition, fake news generally refers to misleading content found on the internet, especially on social media.”The role of disinformation in recent elections has given rise to another distinct, but related, term: ‘fake news.’Although there is no universal definition, fake news generally refers to misleading content found on the internet, especially on social media. One analysis lays out five types of fake news, including intentionally deceptive content, jokes taken at face value, large-scale hoaxes, slanted reporting of real facts, and coverage where the truth may be uncertain or contentious. These are not new:  an example of fake news from 2011 involves websites masquerading as real news organizations to spread false information about the health benefits of acai berries.Much of this content is produced by for-profit websites and Facebook pages gaming the platform for advertising revenue. By producing tailored false content targeted at the views, concerns, and preferences of social media users, these pages can generate tens of thousands of interactions and thousands of dollars a month. In 2015, Facebook began taking steps to curtail this content, which it called a form of “news feed spam.” By 2016, it became clear the problem was growing out of control. Fabricated and fiercely partisan political content—much of it produced abroad for profit—in some instances outpaced engagement with credible mainstream news outlets.Facebook initially downplayed the potential influence of fake news, although it also pledged to pursue a response involving expanded partnerships with fact-checkers, increased emphasis on detection and reporting, warning labels for untrustworthy stories, and a crackdown on for-profit fake news pages. Twitter also reacted, developing an experimental prototype feature to allow users to report “fake news” and exploring the use of machine learning to detect automated accounts spreading political content.More often than not, fake news does not meet the definition of disinformation or propaganda. Its motives are usually financial, not political, and it is usually not tied to a larger agenda. One attempt to classify various types of misleading and manipulative news content separates misinformation (inadvertent sharing of false information) from disinformation, which is deliberate, and arranges examples by motivation and degree of deception. Most of the fake news described above falls somewhere in the middle: not inadvertent, but motivated by profit rather than influence. To the degree that its purpose can be described as political, fake news begins to resemble more insidious content.Fake news’ political prominence does have lessons for analysts of disinformation. Fake news draws audiences because it validates their political preconceptions and worldviews, capitalizing on media consumers’ confirmation bias. Many argue that because social media curates content according to user preferences, it has a polarizing effect that leaves consumers more vulnerable to manipulation in this way. Political actors have been able to use this to their advantage by producing incendiary content that spreads rapidly through grassroots online networks (some call this “political astroturfing”).More often than not, fake news does not meet the definition of disinformation or propaganda. Its motives are usually financial, not political, and it is usually not tied to a larger agenda.”Some analysts also differentiate between various types of “information campaigns”—organized attempts to communicate with large groups of individuals—which may include marketing, public affairs, and public diplomacy. All of these terms are worth disentangling from each other and from propaganda and disinformation writ large.Marketing and public relations rely on a mix of facts, opinions, and emotional cues to persuade audiences and build affinity between individuals and brands or organizations. As promotional activities meant to augment or protect the reputation of the messenger, their goals may be commercial or political, or they may simply aim to generate publicity. Similarly promotional is public diplomacy, which states utilize to represent their viewpoints to foreign audiences and promote positive associations with that country among foreign publics. Done well, public diplomacy distinguishes itself from propaganda by never intentionally spreading false information or relying on non-rational means of persuasion (though marketing and public relations, of course, may rely on such non-rational devices).Marketing, public relations, public diplomacy, and similar information campaigns are all related to the field of “strategic communication,” broadly defined as the purposeful use of information and messaging to advance the mission of a given organization, be it a corporate, government, non-profit, or military actor. In the military context, a 2007 paper from the U.S. Army War College emphasizes that strategic communication in a military context aims to influence adversaries, reassure allies, and persuade publics. Because it may be impossible to deceive one of these audiences without deceiving others, some advocate that “deception should be rigorously forbidden in strategic communication” and that the use of disinformation should never fall under the rubric of strategic communication.Done well, public diplomacy distinguishes itself from propaganda by never intentionally spreading false information or relying on non-rational means of persuasion.”Some argue the intent of the messenger is crucial to distinguishing between different types of messages. This makes it difficult to draw a bright, clear line between marketing, public relations, and public diplomacy, on one side, and propaganda and disinformation on the other. This is especially true when the content in question includes both objective fact and subjective interpretation but no clear falsehood, because it may be unclear whether the message reflects a genuine perspective or an intent to mislead. When content does include falsehoods, it may be unclear whether they are accidental or purposeful.If an information campaign uses falsehoods and emotional appeals not to persuade or attract but to disrupt, divide, confuse, or otherwise damage target audiences’ understanding or political cohesion, it more closely aligns with disinformation and its undermining function. This is not solely the realm of the state: many activities undertaken by non-state actors may also fit this description.If an information campaign uses falsehoods and emotional appeals not to persuade or attract but to disrupt, divide, confuse, or otherwise damage target audiences’ understanding or political cohesion, it more closely aligns with disinformation and its undermining function.”Information campaigns with these goals in mind are now sometimes referred to as “information operations,” a term until recently used primarily by defense officials in referring broadly to the use of communications in military operations. In April 2017, Facebook described “information (or influence) operations” on the platform, which aim “to achieve a strategic and/or geopolitical outcome” using “a combination of methods, such as false news, disinformation, or networks of fake accounts (false amplifiers) aimed at manipulating public opinion.” In the run-up to the 2017 French presidential election, Facebook deleted 30,000 fake French accounts from the platform, providing a sense of the scale these operations can reach.In that election, an information operation (likely of Russian origin) released hacked documents just before the beginning of a legally mandated election news blackout in order to damage the campaign of Emmanuel Macron, the eventual winner. The manipulation of information has been a feature of Syria’s civil war since the conflict’s beginning. Research from a diverse set of country case studies suggests that a wide array of political, military, and private actors now routinely use social media to manipulate public opinion. Italy’s populist Five Star Movement, for instance, is tied to a large constellation of online disinformation outlets. Taiwanese democracy must grapple with both domestic and cross-strait sources of disinformation. Information operations, including those involving the use of disinformation during elections, are likely to remain a tool of political influence well into the foreseeable future. Brief prepared by Dean Jackson, International Forum for Democratic Studies.Image Credit: kaboompics/Pixabay (Creative Commons) Dean Jackson’s July 2017 interview with Phil Howard on “Computational Propaganda’s Challenge to Democracy.”International Forum Director Shanthi Kalathil’s March 2017 report on China’s influence in the information space for the Center for International Media Assistance, “Beyond the Great Firewall: How China Became a Global Information Power.”Nathaniel Persily’s 2016 Journal of Democracy article, “Can Democracy Survive the Internet?”National Endowment for Democracy Vice President for Studies & Analysis Christopher Walker’s interviews on Russian disinformation and Chinese propaganda with Peter Pomerantsev and Anne-Marie Brady, respectively.In the January 2018 issue of the Journal of Democracy, Christopher Walker and...The January 2019 edition of the Forum newsletter features..."Russia's International Media Poisons Minds""The...The March 2019 edition of the Forum newsletter features...Alexander Cooley, Steven Heydemann, Ronald Deibert, and Christopher Sabatini...
#DEMOCRACY TODAY: Transitional Justice Working Group#October 16, 2017#.embed-container { position: relative; padding-bottom: 56.25%; height: 0; overflow: hidden; max-width: 100%; } .embed-container iframe, .embed-container object, .embed-container embed { position: absolute; top: 0; left: 0; width: 100%; height: 100%; }The National Endowment for Democracy’s 2018 Democracy Award honors the civil...On Thursday, May 4, Youk Chhang, Executive Director...The Voice of Freedom: Improving Radio Programs ...One way or another, a transition in North Korea is...Stephan Haggard is the Krause Distinguished Professor at the Graduate School...
#Journal of Democracy October 2017 Issue: What is Putinism?#October 16, 2017#Vladimir Putin is today the only living world leader whose name has given rise to an “ism.” But exactly what kind of regime is it that Russia’s power elite now touts in its challenge to liberal democracy? In What is Putinism?, M. Steven Fish highlights three key traits: conservatism, populism, and personalism. Fish’s thought-provoking analysis examines how the Kremlin’s preoccupation with stability has interacted with Russia’s rent-driven economy to create a distinct form of autocracy—one that differs not only from developmentalist dictatorships, but also from right-populist political currents elsewhere in the world. Emphasizing the centrality of Putin’s personal power, Fish also identifies built-in limitations to Putinism’s hold and appeal.“For years now, Russia has for all practical purposes been governed as a dictatorship,” states Vladimir Kara-Murza. But he also stresses the importance of remembering that Putin is Not Russia. And so Kara-Murza’s analysis looks before and beyond Putinism. Kara-Murza explains how Putin slowly transformed “a flawed but fundamentally democratic political system” by progressively cracking down on independent media outlets, civil society, and the opposition; he shows that Russians have increasingly responded to closure in these spheres by taking to the streets. Weighing the 2017 anticorruption protests in the light of generational change and frustration with an unaccountable regime, Kara-Murza maintains that those voicing their readiness for change “represent the future of Russia.”   The October issue cluster on Russia’s autocracy also features:In Eroding Norms and Democratic Deconsolidation, Paul Howe challenges the view that disappointment with government performance lies at the root of waning commitment to democracy in the United States. Instead, he finds that individuals who see as acceptable a variety of antisocial behaviors—from bribe-taking and fare evasion to domestic violence—are also the most likely to hold antidemocratic views. Today’s travails reflect long-term social and cultural changes that have corroded key norms,  interlinked with socioeconomic and educational divides that have left segments of the population feeling “marginalized and alienated.” Averting deconsolidation will therefore require drawing people back “into the social contract—into a sense that they belong to a society where core principles essential to living together should rightly be respected and observed.”In addition, in the October 2017 issue:For the complete Table of Contents, visit www.journalofdemocracy.org. Brutal Censorship: Targeting Journalists in the North...The October 2018 issue of the Journal of Democracy...Shanthi Kalathil testified in front of the House Foreign...
#Liberal Democracy’s Fading Allure#October 16, 2017#Journal of Democracy coeditor Marc F. Plattner discusses the factors that account for the troubled condition of liberal democracy in the October 2017 issue.Standard explanations cite factors such as slowing economic growth and rising economic inequality, political polarization and gridlock, globalization, and moral and cultural decadence. Yet such explanations cannot account for the speed with which democracy’s decline has surged to the forefront of political discourse around the world. And it can hardly be a coincidence that disaffection with liberal democracy and support for populist parties are growing in both new and longstanding democracies alike. Simultaneously, authoritarian regimes of various stripes are showing a new boldness as the confidence and vigor of the democracies wane. Liberal democracy will regain its former health only if voters become convinced not only of democracy’s intrinsic merits but also of its superiority to all possible alternatives.There is no denying that liberal democracy ultimately depends on the will of the majority. If voters keep making poor electoral choices or unreasonable demands on their governments, especially ones that threaten to erode the liberal aspects of the regime, then liberal democracy cannot endure.”– Marc F. PlattnerPhoto credit: USAID/FlickrThe October 2016 issue features seven essays on the political tendencies challenging...Read the Challenge of Resurgent Authoritarianism: Can...The July 2018 issue features an eight-article cluster...The April 2019 issue of the Journal of Democracy features...Remarks by Carl Gershman to The Inter-University ...
#Globalization Chinese-Style: A JoD Book Review#October 16, 2017#China’s “Belt and Road Initiative” to link Asia, Europe, and Africa through a vast network of infrastructure projects represents an ambitious undertaking, the implications of which are not yet well understood.In the October 2017 issue of the Journal of Democracy, International Forum for Democratic Studies director Shanthi Kalathil reviews Nadege Rolland’s monograph, China’s Eurasian Century? Political and Strategic Implications of the Belt and Road Initiative (National Bureau of Asian Research, 2017).  Through her research of Chinese-language sources, including interviews with Chinese Communist Party officials and Chinese policy analysts, Rolland examines the drivers and objectives behind China’s Belt and Road Initiative.To  see the [Belt and Road Initiative] as merely a wish list of construction projects or China’s latest plan for Eurasian connectivity is to miss the forest for the trees, Rolland suggests. In fact, the plan represents a direct strike at the rules-based system championed by democracies and, ultimately, at the liberal international order.Shanthi Kalathil, “Globalization Chinese-Style” Photo Credit: Wikimedia/Creative CommonsIs liberal democracy in trouble? What are Brexit's implications for the U.K....Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellow George Sarpong examined..."Power 3.0 | Authoritarian Resurgence, Democratic Resilience"...Professor João Carlos Espada spoke about his new book,...International Forum for Democratic Studies Executive Director Christopher Walker...
#DEMOCRACY TODAY: Transitional Justice Working Group#October 16, 2017#.embed-container { position: relative; padding-bottom: 56.25%; height: 0; overflow: hidden; max-width: 100%; } .embed-container iframe, .embed-container object, .embed-container embed { position: absolute; top: 0; left: 0; width: 100%; height: 100%; }The National Endowment for Democracy’s 2018 Democracy Award honors the civil...On Thursday, May 4, Youk Chhang, Executive Director...The Voice of Freedom: Improving Radio Programs ...One way or another, a transition in North Korea is...Stephan Haggard is the Krause Distinguished Professor at the Graduate School...
#Journal of Democracy October 2017 Issue: What is Putinism?#October 16, 2017#Vladimir Putin is today the only living world leader whose name has given rise to an “ism.” But exactly what kind of regime is it that Russia’s power elite now touts in its challenge to liberal democracy? In What is Putinism?, M. Steven Fish highlights three key traits: conservatism, populism, and personalism. Fish’s thought-provoking analysis examines how the Kremlin’s preoccupation with stability has interacted with Russia’s rent-driven economy to create a distinct form of autocracy—one that differs not only from developmentalist dictatorships, but also from right-populist political currents elsewhere in the world. Emphasizing the centrality of Putin’s personal power, Fish also identifies built-in limitations to Putinism’s hold and appeal.“For years now, Russia has for all practical purposes been governed as a dictatorship,” states Vladimir Kara-Murza. But he also stresses the importance of remembering that Putin is Not Russia. And so Kara-Murza’s analysis looks before and beyond Putinism. Kara-Murza explains how Putin slowly transformed “a flawed but fundamentally democratic political system” by progressively cracking down on independent media outlets, civil society, and the opposition; he shows that Russians have increasingly responded to closure in these spheres by taking to the streets. Weighing the 2017 anticorruption protests in the light of generational change and frustration with an unaccountable regime, Kara-Murza maintains that those voicing their readiness for change “represent the future of Russia.”   The October issue cluster on Russia’s autocracy also features:In Eroding Norms and Democratic Deconsolidation, Paul Howe challenges the view that disappointment with government performance lies at the root of waning commitment to democracy in the United States. Instead, he finds that individuals who see as acceptable a variety of antisocial behaviors—from bribe-taking and fare evasion to domestic violence—are also the most likely to hold antidemocratic views. Today’s travails reflect long-term social and cultural changes that have corroded key norms,  interlinked with socioeconomic and educational divides that have left segments of the population feeling “marginalized and alienated.” Averting deconsolidation will therefore require drawing people back “into the social contract—into a sense that they belong to a society where core principles essential to living together should rightly be respected and observed.”In addition, in the October 2017 issue:For the complete Table of Contents, visit www.journalofdemocracy.org. Brutal Censorship: Targeting Journalists in the North...The October 2018 issue of the Journal of Democracy...Shanthi Kalathil testified in front of the House Foreign...
#Liberal Democracy’s Fading Allure#October 16, 2017#Journal of Democracy coeditor Marc F. Plattner discusses the factors that account for the troubled condition of liberal democracy in the October 2017 issue.Standard explanations cite factors such as slowing economic growth and rising economic inequality, political polarization and gridlock, globalization, and moral and cultural decadence. Yet such explanations cannot account for the speed with which democracy’s decline has surged to the forefront of political discourse around the world. And it can hardly be a coincidence that disaffection with liberal democracy and support for populist parties are growing in both new and longstanding democracies alike. Simultaneously, authoritarian regimes of various stripes are showing a new boldness as the confidence and vigor of the democracies wane. Liberal democracy will regain its former health only if voters become convinced not only of democracy’s intrinsic merits but also of its superiority to all possible alternatives.There is no denying that liberal democracy ultimately depends on the will of the majority. If voters keep making poor electoral choices or unreasonable demands on their governments, especially ones that threaten to erode the liberal aspects of the regime, then liberal democracy cannot endure.”– Marc F. PlattnerPhoto credit: USAID/FlickrThe October 2016 issue features seven essays on the political tendencies challenging...Read the Challenge of Resurgent Authoritarianism: Can...The July 2018 issue features an eight-article cluster...The April 2019 issue of the Journal of Democracy features...Remarks by Carl Gershman to The Inter-University ...
#Globalization Chinese-Style: A JoD Book Review#October 16, 2017#China’s “Belt and Road Initiative” to link Asia, Europe, and Africa through a vast network of infrastructure projects represents an ambitious undertaking, the implications of which are not yet well understood.In the October 2017 issue of the Journal of Democracy, International Forum for Democratic Studies director Shanthi Kalathil reviews Nadege Rolland’s monograph, China’s Eurasian Century? Political and Strategic Implications of the Belt and Road Initiative (National Bureau of Asian Research, 2017).  Through her research of Chinese-language sources, including interviews with Chinese Communist Party officials and Chinese policy analysts, Rolland examines the drivers and objectives behind China’s Belt and Road Initiative.To  see the [Belt and Road Initiative] as merely a wish list of construction projects or China’s latest plan for Eurasian connectivity is to miss the forest for the trees, Rolland suggests. In fact, the plan represents a direct strike at the rules-based system championed by democracies and, ultimately, at the liberal international order.Shanthi Kalathil, “Globalization Chinese-Style” Photo Credit: Wikimedia/Creative CommonsIs liberal democracy in trouble? What are Brexit's implications for the U.K....Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellow George Sarpong examined..."Power 3.0 | Authoritarian Resurgence, Democratic Resilience"...Professor João Carlos Espada spoke about his new book,...International Forum for Democratic Studies Executive Director Christopher Walker...
#The Big Question: Kleptocracy and Russia’s Foreign Policy#October 12, 2017#TWEET | SHARE | PDFAs Russia’s role in disrupting democratic practices abroad draws scrutiny, it has raised questions about how kleptocracy informs the Kremlin’s foreign policy agenda, and vice versa. The Kremlin’s involvement in the energy policies of neighboring countries, its support of corrupt overseas leaders, and its attempts to curry influence abroad are seemingly intertwined with kleptocratic activity at home.The International Forum for Democratic Studies asked four leading experts about the role of kleptocracy in Russia’s foreign policy. (Their answers have been edited for length and clarity, and do not necessarily reflect the views of the National Endowment for Democracy.)The essence of Putin’s notion of a mobilization state is precisely that nothing is beyond his reach; that anybody, any institution, from companies to criminal gangs, can be called on to carry out missions for the Kremlin.-Mark Galeotti, Institute of International RelationsMark Galeotti is a senior researcher at the Institute of International Relations Prague and coordinates its Centre for European Security. He is also the director of the consultancy firm Mayak Intelligence. His most recent book, The Vory: Russia’s Super Mafia, will be published by Yale University Press in spring 2018. Galeotti is the author of the blog “In Moscow’s Shadows.” He tweets @MarkGaleotti. Under Putin, Russia has become a toxic mix of a pragmatic kleptocracy and a nationalistic “mobilization state.” At home, kleptocracy tends to trump state interests; abroad, kleptocracy is mobilized for the state. It is not just that corrupt Russians rig deals, covertly buy assets, and launder their dirty cash in global markets. Of course they do (although they are hardly the only ones to do so). The Kremlin also uses these methods and connections, and the power and influence they generate, to advance its agenda abroad. The essence of Putin’s notion of a mobilization state is precisely that nothing is beyond his reach; that anybody, any institution, from companies to criminal gangs, can be called on to carry out missions for the Kremlin.Thus, companies and individuals dependent on Russia may be expected to support divisive political candidates or parties through donations, or “alternative media” outlets through advertising. Or they may be expected to lobby against sanctions or to allow Russian investment into strategic sectors. In other words, while most of the time corrupt Russian business practices are no more than the reflection of the kleptocratic methods and values so evident back home, at any time they may actually be bent to the interests of the Kremlin—which by definition means against the interests of the West.The use of power and state resources for personal interests, and the fusion between power and property, have been genetic characteristics of the Russian system and its normal way of existence.-Lilia Shevtsova, Chatham HouseLilia Shevtsova is an associate fellow for the Russia and Eurasia program at Chatham House and senior scholar at the Davis Center for Russian and Eurasian Studies at Harvard University. She is Honorary Doctor of the St. Gallen University in Switzerland and author of Yeltsin’s Russia: Myths and Reality; Putin’s Russia; and Russia—Lost in Transition: The Yeltsin and Putin Legacies.I would be cautious to apply such terms as “kleptocracy” or “corruption” to the Russian political regime. These terms mean deviation and abnormality in the political fabric. On the contrary, the use of power and state resources for personal interests, and the fusion between power and property, have been genetic characteristics of the Russian system and its normal way of existence. One cannot eradicate kleptocracy and corruption in Russia without transforming the whole system and rejecting its main premises. As for Russia’s foreign policy, it is a servant of the Kremlin’s domestic needs. The state’s role in preserving the security and well-being of the Russian ruling corporation is becoming even more powerful as the resources of the state are shrinking.The irony is that Russia’s elites would have never secured their interests without assistance from the Western establishment. The West is allowing the integration of the Russian bureaucracy and oligarchy into its society, without conditioning this integration on how they behave at home and internationally. The Western establishment’s readiness for cooptation facilitates the survival of the Russian kleptocratic system—and the Kremlin’s foreign policy agenda—through the use of Western resources. Thus, the question “What is the role of the Western facilitators in the reproduction of the Russian system” would not be irrelevant.The main dream of Russian kleptocrats has been to be welcomed in the West as part of the global financial elite – and because of this they would prefer a decent and peaceful foreign policy.Vladislav Inozemtsev, Centre for Post-Industrial StudiesVladislav Inozemtsev, director of the Centre for Post-Industrial Studies in Moscow, is senior research fellow at the Polish Institute of Advanced Studies in Warsaw. Inozemtsev is the author of over 600 printed works published in Russia, France, the United Kingdom, and the United States, including 15 monographs, four of which have been translated into English. I wouldn’t say that some particular role for “kleptocracy” may be found in the rationale for Russia’s foreign policy. The particularity of Russia’s foreign policy during the Putin era is that it has never been subjugated to economic considerations, so therefore the interests of wealthy Russian businesspeople and bureaucrats have never determined it. Contrary to that, ideological and political factors have always seemed superior when it comes to foreign policy actions.The nature of contemporary kleptocracy presupposes an open economy and open borders, since there is no sense in amassing wealth inside a country that is ruled without any respect for its own laws (and only under such conditions can kleptocracy itself develop). Therefore, the main dream of Russian kleptocrats has been to be welcomed in the West as part of the global financial elite—and because of this they would prefer a decent and peaceful foreign policy. My experience suggests that the most affluent Russian politicians and businesspersons did not support the 2014 intervention in Crimea. What Russian kleptocrats need is an imaginary mobilization against the West that would allow them to consolidate their grip on Russian society, combined with a realistic foreign policy that minimizes the risk of conflict with the countries they invest in.Russia prizes its ability to export its peculiar style of corruption because, yes, it uses Western institutions and law to protect the ill-gotten gains of its kleptocrats, but also because it undermines the integrity and strength of those same institutions.-Hannah Thoburn, Hudson Institute Hannah Thoburn is a research fellow at the Hudson Institute, where she focuses on Russia, Ukraine, Eastern European politics, and the transatlantic relationship. She currently writes the “Eurasia Uncovered” blog at World Affairs Journal and is a member of the Advisory Council at the Hudson Institute’s Kleptocracy Initiative. Before joining Hudson, she worked at the Brookings Institution’s Center on the United States and Europe, the Foreign Policy Initiative, Yale University, and spent two years as a Peace Corps volunteer in southern Ukraine. She tweets @HannahThoburn.Corruption is a key feature of the Russian government. The entire Russian governance and power structure is based on a system that rewards loyalty to the central leadership—the Kremlin—with wealth taken both from ordinary citizens and the functions (like healthcare, military, and transport) that the government is supposed to provide.As this system has helped the Kremlin authorities consolidate power and diminish their enemies, they have looked to use the same tool in foreign policy. Russia prizes its ability to export its peculiar style of corruption because, yes, it uses Western institutions and law to protect the ill-gotten gains of its kleptocrats, but also because it undermines the integrity and strength of those same institutions. In a way, the willingness of Western lawyers, real estate agents, public relations firms, and bankers to help powerful Russians move their illicit funds out of Russia proves the old Communist ideas about the West correct: capitalists hold no values and can be bought for a price.Closer to Russia, in Eastern Europe, the Kremlin uses kleptocratic means to ensure that important institutions and companies in neighboring countries like Moldova, Ukraine, and Belarus remain tied to Russian business and politics. Its key government-owned and -linked companies have worked steadily, often using bribery and corrupt deals, to insert themselves into key industries and businesses, particularly in the energy sector. The Q&A with Rafael Marques de Morais on kleptocracy in Angola and the Q&A with Judge Mark Wolf on creating and enforcing legal mechanisms to combat kleptocracy. “The Kremlin Emboldened,” appearing in the October 2017 Journal of Democracy. Top Photo Credit: Petar Milošević/Creative Commons Apr 30, 2015Forum Launches New Website: "Resurgent...Writing for Policy Options, NED Vice President for...The National Endowment for Democracy (NED) will present...The International Forum sits down with Judge Mark Wolf...In the January issue of the Journal of Democracy, Miriam Lanskoy and Dylan Myles-Primakoff...
#Testimony of Dave Peterson – National Endowment for Democracy Hearing on the Future of Democracy and Governance in Liberia House Foreign Affairs Committee, Subcommittee on Africa, Global Health, Global Human Rights, and International Organizations#September 22, 2017#September 13, 2017Liberia has come a long way in the 30 years since the National Endowment for Democracy began working there in the waning years of the Samuel Doe regime, through the civil war, the interim government, the rule of Charles Taylor, and now the two terms of Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf and the Ebola crisis. Liberia’s October 10 elections should be competitive, peaceful, and democratic. But Liberia’s democracy should not be taken for granted.Having observed both the 1997 elections that brought Taylor to power, as well as the 2005 elections that ushered in Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf, I can testify to the determination Liberians have demonstrated for democracy at the ballot box. According to the Afrobarometer, 83 percent of Liberians support democratic elections. The reports from our Liberian partners in the field describe lively candidate debates, successful voter registration efforts, and massive civic education campaigns. They are mobilizing women, youth, traditional leaders, and the security forces, among others, to inform them about the process and the candidates, and to participate responsibly. They are using social media, phone banks, community town halls, radio, and even old-fashioned town criers, to spread the word. They are monitoring the process, providing criticism and recommendations, and some are working directly to support the electoral commission. According to one NED partner, campaigning has been “peaceful” and “mature,” even in the most troubled areas: “Candidates and their campaign managers have been keen on the issues and things they can do to improve the livelihoods and environments of their people as opposed to indulging into ethnic politics.”We all know that democracy is more than elections, however, and the challenges of governance in the interim can be daunting. Predicting the future is dangerous, especially when it comes to the volatile politics of West Africa; but Liberia could prove a reliable democratic partner of the United States, its democratic institutions and popular commitment to democracy could grow stronger, and its governance could improve.How can this happen?Liberia is not the only country in West Africa holding democratic elections. Ghana’s elections last year were a model of efficiency and transparency, as well as being peaceful and democratic. The Gambia’s elections last year were also competitive , and produced a surprising transition. In the last few years, Senegal, Benin, Cote d’Ivoire, Burkina Faso, Mali, and of course, Nigeria, have held elections of varying quality, but all essentially free and democratic. Sierra Leone and Guinea will hold elections next year, which are also anticipated to be democratic. Thus, in this regional context, Liberia is fortunate to be surrounded by democratic-minded neighbors who are more likely to support Liberia’s democratic trajectory than to subvert it. The kinds of cross-border attacks that used to occur back and forth between Guinea, Sierra Leone, and Cote d’Ivoire have ended. The steady withdrawal of UN and ECOWAS troops is not a sign of fatigue or diminished support, but of confidence that Liberia’s own security institutions are strong enough to maintain order and protect the country. All of these governments are friendly to the United States, and as their democratic systems consolidate and mature, the West Africa region should come to be regarded as an important economic and political partner of the US.But Liberia is special. Although its population is only 4.3 million, it is the only country in Africa that claims a special kinship with the United States — “America’s Stepchild,” as some Liberians put it. Its history is closely intertwined with ours, from the founding of the Liberian Colonial Society in 1846, the dominance of the Americo-Liberian elite, its service as an American base during World War II and the Cold War, to place-names such as Monrovia, the Liberian flag, and the uniquely American-accented Liberian English. Liberia’s political upheavals have brought waves of Liberian immigrants to the US, and I know many Members of Congress are very familiar with the energetic lobbying of Liberian-Americans in your districts. Most Liberians have long aspired for their nation to have a special relationship with the United States, however wary they may be of the potential dangers. Liberia’s economic resources and commercial potential are also not to be dismissed, including rubber and palm oil, iron, tourism and shipping. Whoever is elected president of Liberia will be keenly aware of these relationships, and will likely want to strengthen them and take advantage of them. But the United States also stands to benefit from a strong, prosperous, and democratic Liberia. In contrast to its destabilizing role in the region just 20 years ago, Liberia is now serving as a model for democratic transition, female leadership, and national reconciliation. In the struggle against extremist and criminal networks in the West Africa region, Liberia could prove particularly helpful.Liberia’s democratic institutions are in place and functioning, but they need shoring up. The legislature, for example, is improving its performance, according to one of NED’s partners that has been monitoring the institution for many years, but it has not always showed the independence and integrity that Liberians would like. Only one-third of Liberian voters believe that members of the House of Representatives reflect their views, according to Afrobarometer, and one of the popular issues in the campaign has been the call to cut legislators’ and government officials’ salaries and benefits, which are indeed relatively high. The legislature’s budget is almost equal to that of the entire education system.Likewise, the judiciary remains weak. The Supreme Court’s recent rulings on the eligibility of certain candidates has stirred controversy and questions about its independence. Having seen the critical role the Court played in the recent Kenyan elections, Liberians are skeptical that their court would be able to show the same integrity. Liberia’s local justice structures are quite weak, suffering a shortage of magistrates and a lack of resources for police and prisons. Some Liberians have criticized the millions of dollars spent on the Special Court that tried Charles Taylor, when relatively little went to improve the justice system in local communities.In a survey a couple years ago, Afrobarometer reported that only a third of Liberians trusted the National Elections Commission, but more recent reports from some of our partners suggest this has changed and that the NEC has been meeting its deadlines and is gaining the confidence of voters. I will leave my colleague from IFES to confirm this. But the bottom line is that Liberians are committed to democracy and the electoral process.Liberia’s press remains independent and lively, despite resource problems. Anti-defamation cases have tapered off, and a Freedom of Information Act was passed a few years ago, but the press will need to remain vigilant. Civil society is also vibrant and often critical. It played a leading role in fighting the Ebola epidemic; and will continue to act both as a watchdog, as well as a partner with government where possible. Both the labor movement and the business sector have been gaining strength in recent years, and both have benefited from partnerships with NED’s core grantees, the Solidarity Center and the Center for International Private Enterprise. These non-governmental institutions are important foundations for Liberian democracy, and provide some hope that it is sustainable.Corruption remains the weak point in Liberia’s democracy, as is the case for many African democracies. Although the scale of corruption may be nowhere near that of Nigeria, the impact is just as destructive for Liberia. Nepotism, ethnic favoritism, shady contracts, vote-buying, land deals, and other forms of both grand and petty corruption can only undermine popular support for democracy. Although many of the candidates have expressed their readiness to fight corruption, as has President Johnson-Sirleaf, Liberians have seen little progress.Liberia must overcome many other challenges to consolidate its nascent democracy. The struggling economy, massive unemployment and dependence on the informal sector, ethnic conflict, religious conflict, land conflict, women’s rights, environmental destruction, and many other difficult problems will not be easily solved. Yet I remain optimistic that with political will, popular commitment, and some modest assistance from international partners, Liberia can consolidate its democracy and steadily improve its governance.Towards the Consolidation of Democratic Processes in NigeriaA Dialogue with...Steven Friedman is director of the Centre for the Study...On August 4–6, 2014, NED seized the opportunity...
#The Globalization of Venality: Kleptocracy’s Corrosive Impact on Democracy##With popular dissatisfaction over corruption increasing around the world, the term “kleptocracy” is often used as a catchall to describe any form of corrupt behavior by national elites. Yet transnational kleptocracy is a distinctive system of corruption in which local leaders divert massive amounts of public funds and harshly repress traditional avenues of accountability, oversight, and transparency. Propelled by globalization and the openness of the international finance system, kleptocratic regimes project their power beyond their borders, purchasing regional media outlets, hiring Western PR firms, and engaging international lawyers and bankers to launder their images and protect their wealth. Please join us as a distinguished panel of speakers—Oliver Bullough, Brett Carter, Ambassador Daniel Fried, and Cynthia Gabriel—discuss the unique features of transnational kleptocracy and how it is impacting democracy in Africa, Asia, Europe, Eurasia, and beyond.featuringmoderated by  Oliver Bullough is an award-winning journalist, author, and commentator, specializing in the former Soviet Union and illicit money flows. Mr. Bullough previously served as Caucasus editor for the Institute of War and Peace Reporting, a security correspondent with Reuters Moscow, co-editor of The Times of Central Asia, and deputy editor of Pulse magazine in St. Petersburg. He has written two non-fiction books about Russian history and politics: The Last Man in Russia, and Let Our Fame Be Great. He is currently writing his third book entitled Moneyland: How the Rich Inherited the Earth.Brett Carter is an assistant professor of international relations at the University of Southern California and co-principal investigator of the Lab on Non-Democratic Politics. He received a Ph.D. in political science from Harvard University in 2014, where he was a graduate fellow at the Harvard Academy for International and Area Studies. He previously served as a fellow at Stanford University’s Center on Democracy, Development, and the Rule of Law, as well as the Hoover Institution. Dr. Carter’s research focuses on autocratic politics in the information age. He is currently working on three book projects: one on autocratic survival in post-Cold War Africa, one on autocratic propaganda, and one that examines the Foreign Agents Registration Act to explore the role of autocratic money in American politics.Daniel Fried is a distinguished fellow at the Atlantic Council’s Future Europe Initiative and Dinu Patriciu Eurasia Center. In the course of his forty-year Foreign Service career, Ambassador Fried played a key role in designing and implementing American policy in Europe after the fall of the Soviet Union.  As special assistant and NSC senior director for Presidents Clinton and Bush, ambassador to Poland, and assistant secretary of state for Europe (2005-09), Ambassador Fried crafted the policy of NATO enlargement to Central European nations and, in parallel, NATO-Russia relations, thus advancing the goal of Europe whole, free, and at peace. Ambassador Fried helped lead the West’s response to Moscow’s aggression against Ukraine starting in 2014: as State Department coordinator for sanctions policy, he crafted US sanctions against Russia, the largest US sanctions program to date, and negotiated the imposition of similar sanctions by Europe, Canada, Japan, and Australia.  Cynthia Gabriel is a human rights advocate and anti-corruption leader in Malaysia. She has spent most of her professional life in the field of advancing and promoting human rights, good governance and democratic freedoms. She founded the Centre to Combat Corruption and Cronyism (C4), a NED grantee, which works to promote good governance and conducts a multifaceted project designed to encourage public participation in efforts to combat corruption. Previously, she has served as the Vice President of the Paris-based global advocacy group, International Federation for Human Rights (2004-2009). All cameras and media must register with NED public affairs. Please email press@ned.org to register as a member of the press.Twitter: Follow @ThinkDemocracy and use #NEDEvents to join the conversation.
#Globalization Chinese-Style: A JoD Book Review#October 16, 2017#China’s “Belt and Road Initiative” to link Asia, Europe, and Africa through a vast network of infrastructure projects represents an ambitious undertaking, the implications of which are not yet well understood.In the October 2017 issue of the Journal of Democracy, International Forum for Democratic Studies director Shanthi Kalathil reviews Nadege Rolland’s monograph, China’s Eurasian Century? Political and Strategic Implications of the Belt and Road Initiative (National Bureau of Asian Research, 2017).  Through her research of Chinese-language sources, including interviews with Chinese Communist Party officials and Chinese policy analysts, Rolland examines the drivers and objectives behind China’s Belt and Road Initiative.To  see the [Belt and Road Initiative] as merely a wish list of construction projects or China’s latest plan for Eurasian connectivity is to miss the forest for the trees, Rolland suggests. In fact, the plan represents a direct strike at the rules-based system championed by democracies and, ultimately, at the liberal international order.Shanthi Kalathil, “Globalization Chinese-Style” Photo Credit: Wikimedia/Creative CommonsIs liberal democracy in trouble? What are Brexit's implications for the U.K....Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellow George Sarpong examined..."Power 3.0 | Authoritarian Resurgence, Democratic Resilience"...Professor João Carlos Espada spoke about his new book,...International Forum for Democratic Studies Executive Director Christopher Walker...
#The Big Question: Kleptocracy and Russia’s Foreign Policy#October 12, 2017#TWEET | SHARE | PDFAs Russia’s role in disrupting democratic practices abroad draws scrutiny, it has raised questions about how kleptocracy informs the Kremlin’s foreign policy agenda, and vice versa. The Kremlin’s involvement in the energy policies of neighboring countries, its support of corrupt overseas leaders, and its attempts to curry influence abroad are seemingly intertwined with kleptocratic activity at home.The International Forum for Democratic Studies asked four leading experts about the role of kleptocracy in Russia’s foreign policy. (Their answers have been edited for length and clarity, and do not necessarily reflect the views of the National Endowment for Democracy.)The essence of Putin’s notion of a mobilization state is precisely that nothing is beyond his reach; that anybody, any institution, from companies to criminal gangs, can be called on to carry out missions for the Kremlin.-Mark Galeotti, Institute of International RelationsMark Galeotti is a senior researcher at the Institute of International Relations Prague and coordinates its Centre for European Security. He is also the director of the consultancy firm Mayak Intelligence. His most recent book, The Vory: Russia’s Super Mafia, will be published by Yale University Press in spring 2018. Galeotti is the author of the blog “In Moscow’s Shadows.” He tweets @MarkGaleotti. Under Putin, Russia has become a toxic mix of a pragmatic kleptocracy and a nationalistic “mobilization state.” At home, kleptocracy tends to trump state interests; abroad, kleptocracy is mobilized for the state. It is not just that corrupt Russians rig deals, covertly buy assets, and launder their dirty cash in global markets. Of course they do (although they are hardly the only ones to do so). The Kremlin also uses these methods and connections, and the power and influence they generate, to advance its agenda abroad. The essence of Putin’s notion of a mobilization state is precisely that nothing is beyond his reach; that anybody, any institution, from companies to criminal gangs, can be called on to carry out missions for the Kremlin.Thus, companies and individuals dependent on Russia may be expected to support divisive political candidates or parties through donations, or “alternative media” outlets through advertising. Or they may be expected to lobby against sanctions or to allow Russian investment into strategic sectors. In other words, while most of the time corrupt Russian business practices are no more than the reflection of the kleptocratic methods and values so evident back home, at any time they may actually be bent to the interests of the Kremlin—which by definition means against the interests of the West.The use of power and state resources for personal interests, and the fusion between power and property, have been genetic characteristics of the Russian system and its normal way of existence.-Lilia Shevtsova, Chatham HouseLilia Shevtsova is an associate fellow for the Russia and Eurasia program at Chatham House and senior scholar at the Davis Center for Russian and Eurasian Studies at Harvard University. She is Honorary Doctor of the St. Gallen University in Switzerland and author of Yeltsin’s Russia: Myths and Reality; Putin’s Russia; and Russia—Lost in Transition: The Yeltsin and Putin Legacies.I would be cautious to apply such terms as “kleptocracy” or “corruption” to the Russian political regime. These terms mean deviation and abnormality in the political fabric. On the contrary, the use of power and state resources for personal interests, and the fusion between power and property, have been genetic characteristics of the Russian system and its normal way of existence. One cannot eradicate kleptocracy and corruption in Russia without transforming the whole system and rejecting its main premises. As for Russia’s foreign policy, it is a servant of the Kremlin’s domestic needs. The state’s role in preserving the security and well-being of the Russian ruling corporation is becoming even more powerful as the resources of the state are shrinking.The irony is that Russia’s elites would have never secured their interests without assistance from the Western establishment. The West is allowing the integration of the Russian bureaucracy and oligarchy into its society, without conditioning this integration on how they behave at home and internationally. The Western establishment’s readiness for cooptation facilitates the survival of the Russian kleptocratic system—and the Kremlin’s foreign policy agenda—through the use of Western resources. Thus, the question “What is the role of the Western facilitators in the reproduction of the Russian system” would not be irrelevant.The main dream of Russian kleptocrats has been to be welcomed in the West as part of the global financial elite – and because of this they would prefer a decent and peaceful foreign policy.Vladislav Inozemtsev, Centre for Post-Industrial StudiesVladislav Inozemtsev, director of the Centre for Post-Industrial Studies in Moscow, is senior research fellow at the Polish Institute of Advanced Studies in Warsaw. Inozemtsev is the author of over 600 printed works published in Russia, France, the United Kingdom, and the United States, including 15 monographs, four of which have been translated into English. I wouldn’t say that some particular role for “kleptocracy” may be found in the rationale for Russia’s foreign policy. The particularity of Russia’s foreign policy during the Putin era is that it has never been subjugated to economic considerations, so therefore the interests of wealthy Russian businesspeople and bureaucrats have never determined it. Contrary to that, ideological and political factors have always seemed superior when it comes to foreign policy actions.The nature of contemporary kleptocracy presupposes an open economy and open borders, since there is no sense in amassing wealth inside a country that is ruled without any respect for its own laws (and only under such conditions can kleptocracy itself develop). Therefore, the main dream of Russian kleptocrats has been to be welcomed in the West as part of the global financial elite—and because of this they would prefer a decent and peaceful foreign policy. My experience suggests that the most affluent Russian politicians and businesspersons did not support the 2014 intervention in Crimea. What Russian kleptocrats need is an imaginary mobilization against the West that would allow them to consolidate their grip on Russian society, combined with a realistic foreign policy that minimizes the risk of conflict with the countries they invest in.Russia prizes its ability to export its peculiar style of corruption because, yes, it uses Western institutions and law to protect the ill-gotten gains of its kleptocrats, but also because it undermines the integrity and strength of those same institutions.-Hannah Thoburn, Hudson Institute Hannah Thoburn is a research fellow at the Hudson Institute, where she focuses on Russia, Ukraine, Eastern European politics, and the transatlantic relationship. She currently writes the “Eurasia Uncovered” blog at World Affairs Journal and is a member of the Advisory Council at the Hudson Institute’s Kleptocracy Initiative. Before joining Hudson, she worked at the Brookings Institution’s Center on the United States and Europe, the Foreign Policy Initiative, Yale University, and spent two years as a Peace Corps volunteer in southern Ukraine. She tweets @HannahThoburn.Corruption is a key feature of the Russian government. The entire Russian governance and power structure is based on a system that rewards loyalty to the central leadership—the Kremlin—with wealth taken both from ordinary citizens and the functions (like healthcare, military, and transport) that the government is supposed to provide.As this system has helped the Kremlin authorities consolidate power and diminish their enemies, they have looked to use the same tool in foreign policy. Russia prizes its ability to export its peculiar style of corruption because, yes, it uses Western institutions and law to protect the ill-gotten gains of its kleptocrats, but also because it undermines the integrity and strength of those same institutions. In a way, the willingness of Western lawyers, real estate agents, public relations firms, and bankers to help powerful Russians move their illicit funds out of Russia proves the old Communist ideas about the West correct: capitalists hold no values and can be bought for a price.Closer to Russia, in Eastern Europe, the Kremlin uses kleptocratic means to ensure that important institutions and companies in neighboring countries like Moldova, Ukraine, and Belarus remain tied to Russian business and politics. Its key government-owned and -linked companies have worked steadily, often using bribery and corrupt deals, to insert themselves into key industries and businesses, particularly in the energy sector. The Q&A with Rafael Marques de Morais on kleptocracy in Angola and the Q&A with Judge Mark Wolf on creating and enforcing legal mechanisms to combat kleptocracy. “The Kremlin Emboldened,” appearing in the October 2017 Journal of Democracy. Top Photo Credit: Petar Milošević/Creative Commons Apr 30, 2015Forum Launches New Website: "Resurgent...Writing for Policy Options, NED Vice President for...The National Endowment for Democracy (NED) will present...The International Forum sits down with Judge Mark Wolf...In the January issue of the Journal of Democracy, Miriam Lanskoy and Dylan Myles-Primakoff...
#Testimony of Dave Peterson – National Endowment for Democracy Hearing on the Future of Democracy and Governance in Liberia House Foreign Affairs Committee, Subcommittee on Africa, Global Health, Global Human Rights, and International Organizations#September 22, 2017#September 13, 2017Liberia has come a long way in the 30 years since the National Endowment for Democracy began working there in the waning years of the Samuel Doe regime, through the civil war, the interim government, the rule of Charles Taylor, and now the two terms of Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf and the Ebola crisis. Liberia’s October 10 elections should be competitive, peaceful, and democratic. But Liberia’s democracy should not be taken for granted.Having observed both the 1997 elections that brought Taylor to power, as well as the 2005 elections that ushered in Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf, I can testify to the determination Liberians have demonstrated for democracy at the ballot box. According to the Afrobarometer, 83 percent of Liberians support democratic elections. The reports from our Liberian partners in the field describe lively candidate debates, successful voter registration efforts, and massive civic education campaigns. They are mobilizing women, youth, traditional leaders, and the security forces, among others, to inform them about the process and the candidates, and to participate responsibly. They are using social media, phone banks, community town halls, radio, and even old-fashioned town criers, to spread the word. They are monitoring the process, providing criticism and recommendations, and some are working directly to support the electoral commission. According to one NED partner, campaigning has been “peaceful” and “mature,” even in the most troubled areas: “Candidates and their campaign managers have been keen on the issues and things they can do to improve the livelihoods and environments of their people as opposed to indulging into ethnic politics.”We all know that democracy is more than elections, however, and the challenges of governance in the interim can be daunting. Predicting the future is dangerous, especially when it comes to the volatile politics of West Africa; but Liberia could prove a reliable democratic partner of the United States, its democratic institutions and popular commitment to democracy could grow stronger, and its governance could improve.How can this happen?Liberia is not the only country in West Africa holding democratic elections. Ghana’s elections last year were a model of efficiency and transparency, as well as being peaceful and democratic. The Gambia’s elections last year were also competitive , and produced a surprising transition. In the last few years, Senegal, Benin, Cote d’Ivoire, Burkina Faso, Mali, and of course, Nigeria, have held elections of varying quality, but all essentially free and democratic. Sierra Leone and Guinea will hold elections next year, which are also anticipated to be democratic. Thus, in this regional context, Liberia is fortunate to be surrounded by democratic-minded neighbors who are more likely to support Liberia’s democratic trajectory than to subvert it. The kinds of cross-border attacks that used to occur back and forth between Guinea, Sierra Leone, and Cote d’Ivoire have ended. The steady withdrawal of UN and ECOWAS troops is not a sign of fatigue or diminished support, but of confidence that Liberia’s own security institutions are strong enough to maintain order and protect the country. All of these governments are friendly to the United States, and as their democratic systems consolidate and mature, the West Africa region should come to be regarded as an important economic and political partner of the US.But Liberia is special. Although its population is only 4.3 million, it is the only country in Africa that claims a special kinship with the United States — “America’s Stepchild,” as some Liberians put it. Its history is closely intertwined with ours, from the founding of the Liberian Colonial Society in 1846, the dominance of the Americo-Liberian elite, its service as an American base during World War II and the Cold War, to place-names such as Monrovia, the Liberian flag, and the uniquely American-accented Liberian English. Liberia’s political upheavals have brought waves of Liberian immigrants to the US, and I know many Members of Congress are very familiar with the energetic lobbying of Liberian-Americans in your districts. Most Liberians have long aspired for their nation to have a special relationship with the United States, however wary they may be of the potential dangers. Liberia’s economic resources and commercial potential are also not to be dismissed, including rubber and palm oil, iron, tourism and shipping. Whoever is elected president of Liberia will be keenly aware of these relationships, and will likely want to strengthen them and take advantage of them. But the United States also stands to benefit from a strong, prosperous, and democratic Liberia. In contrast to its destabilizing role in the region just 20 years ago, Liberia is now serving as a model for democratic transition, female leadership, and national reconciliation. In the struggle against extremist and criminal networks in the West Africa region, Liberia could prove particularly helpful.Liberia’s democratic institutions are in place and functioning, but they need shoring up. The legislature, for example, is improving its performance, according to one of NED’s partners that has been monitoring the institution for many years, but it has not always showed the independence and integrity that Liberians would like. Only one-third of Liberian voters believe that members of the House of Representatives reflect their views, according to Afrobarometer, and one of the popular issues in the campaign has been the call to cut legislators’ and government officials’ salaries and benefits, which are indeed relatively high. The legislature’s budget is almost equal to that of the entire education system.Likewise, the judiciary remains weak. The Supreme Court’s recent rulings on the eligibility of certain candidates has stirred controversy and questions about its independence. Having seen the critical role the Court played in the recent Kenyan elections, Liberians are skeptical that their court would be able to show the same integrity. Liberia’s local justice structures are quite weak, suffering a shortage of magistrates and a lack of resources for police and prisons. Some Liberians have criticized the millions of dollars spent on the Special Court that tried Charles Taylor, when relatively little went to improve the justice system in local communities.In a survey a couple years ago, Afrobarometer reported that only a third of Liberians trusted the National Elections Commission, but more recent reports from some of our partners suggest this has changed and that the NEC has been meeting its deadlines and is gaining the confidence of voters. I will leave my colleague from IFES to confirm this. But the bottom line is that Liberians are committed to democracy and the electoral process.Liberia’s press remains independent and lively, despite resource problems. Anti-defamation cases have tapered off, and a Freedom of Information Act was passed a few years ago, but the press will need to remain vigilant. Civil society is also vibrant and often critical. It played a leading role in fighting the Ebola epidemic; and will continue to act both as a watchdog, as well as a partner with government where possible. Both the labor movement and the business sector have been gaining strength in recent years, and both have benefited from partnerships with NED’s core grantees, the Solidarity Center and the Center for International Private Enterprise. These non-governmental institutions are important foundations for Liberian democracy, and provide some hope that it is sustainable.Corruption remains the weak point in Liberia’s democracy, as is the case for many African democracies. Although the scale of corruption may be nowhere near that of Nigeria, the impact is just as destructive for Liberia. Nepotism, ethnic favoritism, shady contracts, vote-buying, land deals, and other forms of both grand and petty corruption can only undermine popular support for democracy. Although many of the candidates have expressed their readiness to fight corruption, as has President Johnson-Sirleaf, Liberians have seen little progress.Liberia must overcome many other challenges to consolidate its nascent democracy. The struggling economy, massive unemployment and dependence on the informal sector, ethnic conflict, religious conflict, land conflict, women’s rights, environmental destruction, and many other difficult problems will not be easily solved. Yet I remain optimistic that with political will, popular commitment, and some modest assistance from international partners, Liberia can consolidate its democracy and steadily improve its governance.Towards the Consolidation of Democratic Processes in NigeriaA Dialogue with...Steven Friedman is director of the Centre for the Study...On August 4–6, 2014, NED seized the opportunity...
#The Globalization of Venality: Kleptocracy’s Corrosive Impact on Democracy##With popular dissatisfaction over corruption increasing around the world, the term “kleptocracy” is often used as a catchall to describe any form of corrupt behavior by national elites. Yet transnational kleptocracy is a distinctive system of corruption in which local leaders divert massive amounts of public funds and harshly repress traditional avenues of accountability, oversight, and transparency. Propelled by globalization and the openness of the international finance system, kleptocratic regimes project their power beyond their borders, purchasing regional media outlets, hiring Western PR firms, and engaging international lawyers and bankers to launder their images and protect their wealth. Please join us as a distinguished panel of speakers—Oliver Bullough, Brett Carter, Ambassador Daniel Fried, and Cynthia Gabriel—discuss the unique features of transnational kleptocracy and how it is impacting democracy in Africa, Asia, Europe, Eurasia, and beyond.featuringmoderated by  Oliver Bullough is an award-winning journalist, author, and commentator, specializing in the former Soviet Union and illicit money flows. Mr. Bullough previously served as Caucasus editor for the Institute of War and Peace Reporting, a security correspondent with Reuters Moscow, co-editor of The Times of Central Asia, and deputy editor of Pulse magazine in St. Petersburg. He has written two non-fiction books about Russian history and politics: The Last Man in Russia, and Let Our Fame Be Great. He is currently writing his third book entitled Moneyland: How the Rich Inherited the Earth.Brett Carter is an assistant professor of international relations at the University of Southern California and co-principal investigator of the Lab on Non-Democratic Politics. He received a Ph.D. in political science from Harvard University in 2014, where he was a graduate fellow at the Harvard Academy for International and Area Studies. He previously served as a fellow at Stanford University’s Center on Democracy, Development, and the Rule of Law, as well as the Hoover Institution. Dr. Carter’s research focuses on autocratic politics in the information age. He is currently working on three book projects: one on autocratic survival in post-Cold War Africa, one on autocratic propaganda, and one that examines the Foreign Agents Registration Act to explore the role of autocratic money in American politics.Daniel Fried is a distinguished fellow at the Atlantic Council’s Future Europe Initiative and Dinu Patriciu Eurasia Center. In the course of his forty-year Foreign Service career, Ambassador Fried played a key role in designing and implementing American policy in Europe after the fall of the Soviet Union.  As special assistant and NSC senior director for Presidents Clinton and Bush, ambassador to Poland, and assistant secretary of state for Europe (2005-09), Ambassador Fried crafted the policy of NATO enlargement to Central European nations and, in parallel, NATO-Russia relations, thus advancing the goal of Europe whole, free, and at peace. Ambassador Fried helped lead the West’s response to Moscow’s aggression against Ukraine starting in 2014: as State Department coordinator for sanctions policy, he crafted US sanctions against Russia, the largest US sanctions program to date, and negotiated the imposition of similar sanctions by Europe, Canada, Japan, and Australia.  Cynthia Gabriel is a human rights advocate and anti-corruption leader in Malaysia. She has spent most of her professional life in the field of advancing and promoting human rights, good governance and democratic freedoms. She founded the Centre to Combat Corruption and Cronyism (C4), a NED grantee, which works to promote good governance and conducts a multifaceted project designed to encourage public participation in efforts to combat corruption. Previously, she has served as the Vice President of the Paris-based global advocacy group, International Federation for Human Rights (2004-2009). All cameras and media must register with NED public affairs. Please email press@ned.org to register as a member of the press.Twitter: Follow @ThinkDemocracy and use #NEDEvents to join the conversation.
#NED Welcomes 2017-18 Cohort of Penn Kemble Fellows#September 1, 2017#The National Endowment for Democracy (NED) is pleased to announce the selection of its 2017-18 Penn Kemble Forum Democracy Fellows. This group of 31 rising leaders represents a dynamic cross-section of young foreign policy professionals from Capitol Hill, the Executive branch, the security sector, journalists covering international affairs, and the private sector, as well as think tanks and democracy practitioners.The Penn Kemble Forum on Democracy is a NED initiative that promotes bipartisan conversation between these young professionals, opening the opportunity for them to share ideas across sectors and explore the role of democracy and human rights within the context of a broad range of policy questions.The Forum convenes monthly for off-the-record dinner conversations led by foreign policy experts, government officials (past and present), and democracy practitioners. In 2015-16, Penn Kemble Fellows met with Dr. Francis Fukuyama, Ambassador Zalmay Khalilzad, Azar Nafisi (Reading Lolita in Tehran), and many others. “There is a crying need to develop a new generation of young leaders in this country and around the world who, like Penn Kemble, are animated by democratic ideas and values,” said NED President Carl Gershman. The Fellows will start the year with a half-day retreat at the NED offices, followed by a reception on September 19.The Forum is named for Penn Kemble, one of the democracy movement’s most committed activists and strategists. His political evolution took him from early involvement in the civil rights movement, through engagement with the U.S. labor movement in combating Communism, to more recent initiatives, including the Transatlantic Democracy Network and Civitas, an international program to promote civic education. He served as deputy and acting director of the United States Information Agency in the Clinton administration, and Secretary of State Albright appointed him U.S. Representative to the Community of Democracies. In 2002, Secretary of State Powell appointed him to lead a group to investigate slavery and human trafficking in Sudan. He passed away in October 2005.Learn more about the Penn Kemble Forum on DemocracyAaron Allen, Office of Rep. Juan Vargas (D-CA)Mitch Armbruster, Xator CorporationFrancisco Bencosme, U.S. Senate Foreign Relations CommitteeScott Cullinane, U.S. House Foreign Affairs Committee Elizabeth Cutler, U.S. Department of StateDr. Melissa Duell, U.S. Department of StateAndrew Eilts, Opportunity Alliance ServicesDaniella Foster, HiltonJoseph Geni, International Monetary FundJustin Goldman, BAE SystemsElizabeth Huddler, Chemonics International Inc.Graham Jenkins, U.S. Department of DefenseDr. Catherine Kelly, American Bar Association Rule of Law InitiativeImran Khowaja, TriVisionSuzanne Kianpour, BBC NewsEmily Manning, U.S. Senate Foreign Relations CommitteeDr. Osvaldo Gómez Martínez, U.S. Foreign Agricultural ServiceAnnie Medaglia, Bain & Co.         Yery Park, Inter-American Development BankSerwat Perwaiz, WikistratCaitlin Poling, Office of Sen. David Perdue (R-GA)Dr. Patrick Quirk, U.S. Department of StateKedenard Raymond, U.S. Department of StateTheodore Reinert, German Marshall Fund of the United StatesJohn Vollertsen, U.S. Department of StateDr. Meir Walters, U.S. Department of StateRiley Walters, Heritage Foundation         Justin Wein, Office of Rep. David Price (D-NC)Maeve Whelan-Wuest, Brookings InstitutionAli Wyne, RAND CorporationAdam Yezerski, U.S. Senate Committee on Appropriations
#Remarks by Carl Gershman on Promoting Democratic Cooperation in Asia#August 7, 2017#Seoul Forum of the Asia Democracy Research NetworkI want to thank Sook Jong Lee, the East Asia Institute, and the Asia Democracy Research Network for organizing this timely discussion about how to strengthen democratic cooperation in Asia.  As we all know very well, there is great concern throughout the world today about the state of democracy.  This concern contrasts sharply with the optimism that prevailed in the 1990s following the end of the Cold War and the third wave of democratization.  Democratic expansion has been succeeded by what is commonly called a democratic “recession,” and there is even talk of democratic erosion and “deconsolidation” in the advanced democracies of the West. Last May, at a global meeting of public intellectuals in Prague, an “Appeal for Democratic Renewal” (The Prague Appeal) was adopted that opened with the declaration that “Liberal democracy is under threat, and all who cherish it must come to its defense.”According to The Prague Appeal, the threats to democracy are both external and internal.  Democracy is being threatened from without “by despotic regimes in Russia, China, and other countries that are tightening repression internally and expanding their power globally, filling vacuums left by the fading power, influence, and self-confidence of the long-established democracies.”It is also being threatened from within by the authoritarian backsliding of once-democratic countries like the Philippines, Turkey, Hungary, and Venezuela; and by a wave of illiberal populism in the established democracies of the West, where political polarization and dysfunctional government have fueled a backlash against political elites and the rise of anti-system movements and parties. According to the latest Freedom House survey, political rights and civil liberties have declined globally for eleven consecutive years, and established democracies dominate the list of countries that suffered setbacks in freedom in 2016.Asia has not been unaffected by the democratic recession.  Democracy has retreated in a number of emerging Asian democracies, including the Philippines, where an illiberal president threatens the rule of law; Thailand, where a military junta has cemented its control; and Bangladesh, where a single party holds authoritarian power while extremists kill bloggers and other independent voices.  On the security front, North Korea poses an increasingly dangerous nuclear threat, while China continues to flex its muscles against its neighbors, first in the East and South China Seas and now, as we speak, by militarily occupying and building a road in Bhutan’s Doklam Plateau on the border with India, a move that threatens both Bhutan and India.While these developments are worrying, the trends in Asia are actually more encouraging than in other regions.  According to the Economist Intelligence Unit, since it began producing its Democracy Index in 2006, Asia has made more headway in advancing democracy than any other region. And in an article published in 2012 entitled “The Coming Wave” (the Journal of Democracy, Volume 23, Number 1), Larry Diamond asserted that East Asia is the region that has the best prospects for democratic expansion in the period ahead, a development that he said could have “profound consequences for democratic prospects globally.The progress of democracy in Asia has not been limited to democratic expansion and the consolidation of democracy in South Korea, Taiwan, Indonesia, Mongolia, and other countries.  According to a recent article by Charles Welzel and Russell Dalton in the Asian Journal of Comparative Politics, growing social and political modernization in Asia has brought about a shift toward “a more assertive model of citizenship,” which has had the effect of producing “more effective and accountable governments.”  There isn’t better or more important example of the consequences of this shift than the political change that assertive citizens have brought about in this country over the past year.The democratic progress in Asia is a vindication of Kim Dae-jung’s defense of the compatibility of democracy and Asian culture that he mounted in his debate with Lee Kuan Yew two decades ago.  Lee had argued that “Asian values” were incompatible with democracy, which he said was a Western idea with no indigenous roots in Asia. Kim advanced a number of fundamental counter-arguments, drawing upon the views of the Meng-tzu, the most famous Confucian philosopher after Confucius himself, who said more than two millennia before John Locke that “the will of the people is the will of heaven,” and that the ruler had an obligation to provide good and accountable governance.  Kim also said that democracy would spread in Asia, and out-perform dictatorships economically, because its policies were arrived at through public debate and therefore had “the strength of Asia’s proud and self-reliant people.”Kim said that the fundamental reason for his optimism about the prospect for democracy in Asia was “the increasing awareness of the importance of democracy and human rights among Asian themselves.”  Nothing demonstrates more powerfully the depth of this commitment to democratic values than the life and courageous struggle of Liu Xiaobo, the dissident Chinese intellectual who was the most eloquent and insightful voice for democracy anywhere in the world since the beginning of this new millennium.It’s still less than a month since Liu died a martyr’s death in China, so I want to pause for a moment to reflect upon his life and legacy.Liu was hopeful about the prospect for democracy in China because he saw the economic, ideological, and political pillars of Chinese totalitarianism eroding under the impact of modernization and technological change.  He was arrested in 2008 for being the lead author and organizer of Charter 08, a manifesto for democracy and constitutional government that was signed at great personal risk by more than 10,000 Chinese citizens.  His imprisonment only increased his stature and international fame, and in 2010 Liu was awarded the Nobel Prize for Peace.At the Nobel ceremony, which neither Liu nor his wife, Liu Xia, was permitted to attend, the Swedish actress Liv Ullmann read Liu’s closing statement at his trial in which he said that “China will in the end become a nation ruled by law, where human rights reign supreme.”  In that statement, Liu also called for an end to “the enemy mentality of the regime” that “poisons” the spirit of the nation, “incite[s] cruel mortal struggles,” destroys the society’s tolerance and humanity, and hinders the  country’s progress toward freedom and democracy. Liu had continuously called for an end to hatred and “class-struggle thinking,” most notably in “The June 2nd Hunger Strike Declaration” that he authored in Tiananmen Square, less than two days before the regime crushed the nonviolent uprising with massive force. He said that he wanted to “dispel hatred with love.”  But he was far from a naïve or quixotic idealist.  He saw a terrible danger coming for both China and the world if China continued to rise as a dictatorship.  He worried that “The great powers in human history that rose as dictatorships – …Hitler’s Germany, the Meiji Emperor’s Japan, and Stalin’s Soviet Union – all eventually collapsed, and in doing so brought disaster to human civilization.”   And he warned that “if the Communists succeed in…leading China down a disastrously mistaken historical road, the results will not only be another catastrophe for the Chinese people but likely also a disaster for the spread of liberal democracy in the world.”We’re at a very dangerous moment today, with China’s rise as a dictatorship coinciding with the crisis of democracy in the West that has caused new uncertainties in international relations.  But as countries in the region make their adjustments to the new geopolitical realities, democratic values are becoming integral to strategies for shaping the region’s political trajectory.  The Asia analyst Michael Green has written, for example, that Japan and China are “engaged in an ideational competition to define the content of East Asian integration. Where China is pushing a broad agenda premised on the principle of noninterference in internal affairs, Japan has begun pushing for a ‘principled’ multilateralism based on the advancement of democracy, rule of law, and good governance.”Japanese officials continue to press this line and to call for the defense of the “liberal world order” at a time when that term that has gone out of fashion in the West because it seems to suggest support for elitist global institutions.  The fact that Japan has raised its voice on this issue is important, and I regret that NED and other democracy organizations have had difficulty engaging Japanese counterparts in the World Movement for Democracy and in other global and regional democracy networks.  There may be an opportunity now to change that, and I think we should look for ways to take advantage of it.While Japan and other democratic Asian countries face grave democracy and security challenges, they do not seem to be gripped by the crisis of confidence that today affects many transatlantic countries.  There is a more positive and hopeful spirit in Asia about the importance of defending democratic values, perhaps because democracy has come more recently to this region than to the West and is not taken for granted as much, or cynically dismissed as a failure when it runs up against inevitable roadblocks and political divisions.Whatever the reason for the different attitude in Asia, I think that Asian democrats have an important contribution to make to the renewal of global democracy.  If this conference can succeed in developing new ideas for strengthening democratic solidarity and cooperation among legislators, journalists, policy specialists, democracy activists, and government officials, it could help chart a course that counterparts in other regions can follow – and also inspire them to do so.The Prague Appeal called for the creation of a new Coalition for Democratic Renewal that will be a moral and intellectual catalyst for the revitalization of the democratic idea, as well as a forum to share thinking about ways to address the complex challenges facing democracy in an era of globalization, authoritarian resurgence, and revolutionary technological change.  I hope there will be a strong Asian voice in that Coalition, and also at the next Assembly of the World Movement for Democracy, which will meet in Dakar, Senegal, in May of next year.In the past, leadership and solidarity in the struggle for democracy came from the transatlantic heartland of global democracy.  It is my hope that the present crisis will awaken enough people in the West to the crisis of democracy to spark a revival of democratic conviction and solidarity. For now, though, Asian democrats must help fill the vacuum.  The democratic struggles that have been waged in this region over the past decades, and the enormous progress that has been made in so many countries in promoting the rule of law and accountable and effective governance, have laid the foundation for Asians to play a greater role in defending democracy.  At a very troubled moment in world history, the prospect for a better and more democratic future depends in a no small measure on whether Asian democrats can rise to this challenge. Authoritarianism Goes Global gained much attention in Europe as co-editors Marc...The September 2018 edition of the Forum newsletter...Ashley Esarey teaches in the Department of Political...The Voice of Freedom: Improving Radio Programs  for the Citizens of North...
#FORUM Q&A: Philip Howard on Computational Propaganda’s Challenge to Democracy#July 25, 2017#TWEET | SHARE | PDFPhilip N. Howard (@pnhoward) is the principal investigator of the Computational Propaganda Project at the Oxford Internet Institute at the University of Oxford. A professor and writer, Howard has authored numerous academic articles, essays and books on information technology, international affairs, and public life, as well as on the use of digital media for both civic engagement and social control in countries around the world. His projects on digital activism, information access, and modern governance in both democracies and authoritarian regimes have been supported by the National Science Foundation, U.S. Institute of Peace, and Intel’s People and Practices Group. His most recent book is Pax Technica: How the Internet of Things May Set Us Free or Lock Us Up.Computational propaganda, or the use of algorithms and automated social media accounts to influence politics and the flow of information, is an emerging challenge to democracy in the digital age. Using automated social media accounts called bots (or, when networked, botnets), a wide array of actors including authoritarian governments and terrorist organizations are able to manipulate public opinion by amplifying or repressing different forms of political content, disinformation, and hate speech.Dean Jackson of the International Forum for Democratic Studies spoke with Phil Howard to discuss political bots, computational propaganda, and the challenges they pose to democracy. (This interview has been condensed and edited for clarity. The views and opinions expressed here do not necessarily reflect those of the National Endowment for Democracy.) Dean Jackson: You call your project the “Computational Propaganda Project.” Propaganda is usually seen as an attempt to persuade. What are some of the ways in which computational propaganda has been used to persuade human consumers and influence political discussions?Phil Howard: There have been some real, concrete examples of how computational propaganda has been used to persuade. There were multiple algorithms operating over Twitter and multiple ‘fake news’ stories over Facebook over Hillary Clinton’s alleged corruption and involvement with a pedophilia ring and the suicide of an FBI agent, multiple news stories that we know now are fake news. But because of the way that social media transmits information, significant numbers of American voters still think that she was involved in a pedophilia ring in a pizza parlor. So you can tell that some of these outcomes in public opinion are largely the result of coordinated misinformation campaigns.What we need is some sort of careful policy path between firms that serve junk to users, on the one hand, and governments that overregulate.It’s often remarked that propaganda and censorship are two sides of the same coin. It seems like this is true of computational propaganda, as well. How can bots and botnets be used to suppress information as well as propagate it?That’s a very good question. Some of the earliest uses of automated accounts, often called ‘bots,’ were to suppress public conversations over what was going on in Syria. There was a moment when the Syrian civil war broke out in 2010 when very few news outlets had journalists stationed in Damascus. We were all relying on Twitter for photos and stories and vignettes about what was going on in the civil war. It is believed that the Al Assad government hired a communications firm based in Bahrain to flood the Syria hashtag with soap opera stories, scores from soccer games, and pictures of the beach, effectively choking off that hashtag as a useful way of learning about the crisis. So, for the most part, that kind of automation can help drive people off a hashtag that’s important in a crisis.One of the reasons this question is important is that a number of governments are working on ways to manage political conversation, ways that lead to overregulation and that may also generate their own forms of censorship. So what we need is some sort of careful policy path between firms that serve junk to users, on the one hand, and governments that overregulate. Only a few years ago, most observers would have guessed that bots were mostly ignored by human users. People seemed to believe that we could easily identify automated activity, and so we ignored it or found it merely obnoxious or annoying. But your research suggests this isn’t the case today, if it ever was. Is the sense that bots have grown more sophisticated over time correct, and if so, in what ways have they done so?They’ve grown more sophisticated in several ways. Even back then, way back in 2010 or 2011, bots may have been used for generating junk, which we can identify, but they were also used to make politicians seem more popular than they actually were. So even the bots that weren’t generating content helped boost your follower numbers and made it look like you were more popular than you actually were, and like there was a community of support behind you.These days, bots are more sophisticated in two ways: first, they’re often loaded with many different complex messages that sometimes lead humans into semi-serious, engaged conversations. Some of our research in our latest report on political activity in the United States actually shows that we can measure how bots move from being peripheral—many bots are peripheral to social networks—to being central with what you call a K-Core measure. So you can actually identify highly automated accounts that become, over time, very popular among humans.The other thing is that many of these accounts are also tied to fairly complete profiles that include Facebook profiles, SIM cards, Gmail addresses—a whole range of different technologies—that make these fake accounts seem like real users, real voters.It’s very rare that you see an effective automated communications campaign about an exciting, new, positive policy idea.Some observers, including Farhad Manjoo at The New York Times, have commented on bots’ ability to influence users who set the news agenda, such as journalists. Are there other ways in which bots have influence? Can bots instead capitalize on existing social debate and divide to influence more typical and average users?Usually, that kind of influence comes through negative campaigning, like messaging around Hillary Clinton and corruption, or saying no to a new policy idea. It’s very rare that you see an effective automated communications campaign about an exciting, new, positive policy idea. You just don’t see those very much. It’s the negative ones, the ones that are angry, the ones that say “no,” or “we’ve had enough,” the ones that express outrage, the ones that pass moral judgement; it’s usually the ones that come with some picture of a politician at an odd angle that makes them look like they’re dark and scary… that kind of messaging is what tends to travel the farthest amongst networks of average users. I want to ask about networks of grassroots users, especially groups of human users who coordinate trolling and disinformation campaigns on their own. This has been a particular issue around national elections, including in France and the United States, and now also in Germany’s upcoming election. How much interaction do these grassroots campaigns have with automated campaigns? Do they link up at all?We don’t know for sure whether they “link up” organizationally. We can identify different networks that have generated content, but we don’t know that the people behind those networks are communicating. What we know is that there’s a network of Russia-based accounts that follow a number of U.S. politicians, share content, share news from Russia Today and Sputnik. We know that [U.S. President Donald] Trump has many bot followers. There is a Trump fan base that generates a lot of content, and then there’s sort of an alt-right network of content that’s produced in the United States by bot-writers who live in [places like] Seattle, San Francisco, Brooklyn, and Montana, who aren’t exceptional except in their ideology.We don’t know that these groups communicate with each other organizationally, but what we know is that they generate remarkably similar content, and sometimes they pick up each other’s content. But, these days, it’s getting harder and harder to separate networks.Most of what we know about social networks and political opinion formation is through Twitter data, and all of us who are researching this just kind of hope or assume that we can generalize from Twitter to Facebook networks.It seems like most of this research focuses on Twitter, because that platform is easier to both manipulate and research. Are bots also influential on Facebook or on direct-messaging apps that are more commonly used as news sources in the developing world? Unfortunately, we’re having trouble studying other platforms. Twitter’s Application Programming Interface (API) is the most accessible, and that’s why we spend the most time on Twitter. Facebook’s API is less accessible, they don’t share data, they don’t work well with academics, they don’t really respond to queries, and they never provide replication data. We know that they hire many data scientists who conduct experiments internally, but we assume those are used to improve the delivery of advertising or the user experience and are not designed to improve public life.In some of these newer direct-messaging platforms, they’re too specialized… some of our teams have been able to study Line, which is used in Taiwan a lot. Some of these platforms are specific to Southeast Asia, and of course China has its own suite of social media platforms that are different again. I’m curious, just as a follow-up: when you are able to study those direct-messaging apps, do you find a prevalence of bot activity, or is it still too hard to tell?I’d say it’s too hard to tell. In the next year, we’re going to look at the use of direct-messaging apps in Iran. That sounds like a really interesting area of future research, and a good segue: in your opinion, what are the most promising paths forward for your research? What issues most urgently demand the attention of researchers focusing on political bots and computational propaganda?The most urgent issue is more of a policy one than anything: I think it’s about getting Facebook to share. Most of what we know about social networks and political opinion formation is through Twitter data, and all of us who are researching this just kind of hope or assume that we can generalize from Twitter to Facebook networks. There are some good reasons to do that, but we know that there are entire countries where public life is on Facebook, not on Twitter. I think the most urgent thing is for academics to engage with Facebook, or for policymakers to intervene or work out ways that Facebook can help us tackle some of the big misinformation campaigns around the world.The most proximate cause of the problem is that misinformation is presented on social media more frequently in the days before people vote.You’ve indicated that the problem is about misinformation spread by automation. To what degree is the problem really about cognition, human behavior, the way we interact with information we encounter on the internet, and the way bots are able to game that? Do we have a good understanding of how this problem plays out inside of our heads, rather than inside of our devices? It’s a great point; I believe that there are several kinds of cognitive explanations for what goes on that are totally plausible. There are several selective exposure arguments: one is that we don’t like to be contradicted; one is that once we’ve made a decision, we come up with shortcuts for what we feel we’ve already learned; and one is that we just choose to hear good things from the people we always spend time with. Those are three variations on the “selective exposure argument.”I think there are several levels of answers to the problem. The big picture answer is civic education. Teaching everybody Aristotle’s top argumentative fallacies in Latin and how to spot them, so that everyone would leave high school knowing what an ad hominem attack is, knowing what an argumentum ad populum is—you probably could learn the Latin, but—just being able to identify ten argumentative fallacies and to understand what they are would be a great achievement, and it would help a lot. But that is super macro, to get every American to know what logical fallacies are.The most proximate cause of the problem is that misinformation is presented on social media more frequently in the days before people vote. We’ve actually been able to demonstrate that the proportion of professionally produced news to junk news is at an all-time low the night before an election. We found this in Michigan in our Michigan sub-sample; we found it again in the UK during the recent UK election. My last question is about the effects of near-future advances in technology, and how they might make the challenges of computational propaganda much more acute: for example, forms of video-editing that can make it appear like someone said something they did not on live television, or the democratization of other tools that allow for more sophisticated forms of misinformation. What is going to get worse most quickly if we don’t address this challenge?I would look more to the back-end than to video-editing, which could be a problem, but the two big back-end issues will be the application of real machine-learning and artificial-intelligence algorithms to political communication. Once the algorithms get genuinely interactive enough that you can pre-load content and engage people who really can’t tell that they’re engaging a bot, that will be a significant problem for political communication.The second back-end issue involves the incorporation of new data from the internet of things. Much of the data that currently drives political messaging is credit card data, merged with health data, merged with voter registration files. Once there is additional behavioral data from lightbulbs, and your car, and the chip in your phone, and all of the data from the internet of things becomes the food for computational propaganda, that will make a seriously deep set of knowledge for political engagement with particular citizens. Those are the two back-end things that I think are the most concerning. International Forum Director Shanthi Kalathil’s May 4, 2017 testimony on China and the internet of things before the U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission;Phil Howard speaks on “Will the Internet of Things Enhance Democracy or Empower Autocrats” at the International Forum for Democratic Studies on January 20, 2016;A Journal of Democracy book review of Phil Howard’s book, Pax Technica: How the Internet of Things May Set Us Free or Lock Us Up, by Daniel O’Maley of the Center for International Media Assistance.Ronald J. Deibert and Xiao Qiang discussed the multifaceted challenges posed...JAN 10, 2014"Breaking the News: The Role of...The Washington Post editorial board discussed the findings...The July 2019 issue of the Journal of Democracy features...The October 2017 issue features six essays on Russia's...The June 2018 edition of the Forum newsletter explores the latest issue of the...
#Journal of Democracy July 2017 Issue: India’s Democracy at 70#July 18, 2017#In recent decades, strong economic growth in India has given rise to an enormously wealthy upper class but failed to lift up the masses of the country’s poor. Ashutosh Varshney explains how, in a country where the poor come regularly to the polls, this transformed landscape has required Prime Minister Narendra Modi of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to address competing political pressures for ensuring economic growth and meeting the demands of mass welfare. “Growth, Inequality, and Nationalism” also examines how Modi’s appeals to Hindu nationalism have shored up his popular support in the face of this economic dilemma.  Other essays in this cluster consider such aspects of India’s democratic heritage and institutions as the country’s federal structure, evolving party system, highly active judiciary, and complex civil society.Faced with the spread of illiberal democracy, commentators have advocated limiting democracy to protect liberalism. In “The Pipe Dream of Undemocratic Liberalism,” Sheri Berman argues that the history of today’s advanced democracies shows such elite fantasies to be ill-founded. “Historically [democracy and liberalism] have developed together.” Not democratic excesses, but authoritarian legacies and democratic deficits have been the breeding grounds for trends that threaten liberal rights. And, Berman contends, if democracy without liberalism threatens to foster the tyranny of the majority, liberalism without democracy carries its own threat of a decline into elitist oligarchy.Analogies with interwar Europe surface regularly in arguments about the fragility of today’s established democracies. But Agnes Cornell, Jørgen Møller, and Svend-Erik Skaaning contend that these analogies with interwar Europe are often misdirected. In “The Real Lessons of the Interwar Years,” they show that the oft-cited democratic breakdowns of the 1920s and 1930s occurred in struggling new democracies. Despite immense challenges, including the Great Depression and the rise of totalitarian movements abroad, established democratic systems exhibited remarkable endurance. The interwar example does not portend democratic collapse in Western Europe and North America today, but rather, these authors conclude, points us to “the remarkable vigor of established democracies in the face of crisis.”In addition, in the July 2017 issue:For the complete Table of Contents, please visit www.journalofdemocracy.org.Dean Jackson of the International Forum for Democratic Studies spoke with Phil...In her CIMA report, Shanthi Kalathil delves into China’s...An International Forum working paper on foreign authoritarian...The October 2016 issue features seven essays on the political tendencies challenging...
#The Fight for Democracy: A New Era of Competition#July 13, 2017#NED Vice President for Studies and Analysis Christopher Walker in a new issue of Konrad Adenauer Stiftung’s International Reports discusses how authoritarian regimes have made dramatic inroads in challenging the integrity and prestige of the democratic systems of the West.Taken together, the forces working against democracy are more powerful than at any time since the end of the Cold War. In taking the initiative against democracy, authoritarians have shown a clear ability to learn and improve their methods of repression and manipulation, both at home and abroad. Leading authoritarian regimes devote extraordinary resources to advancing their preferred worldview and interests – through international media outlets, the development of powerful state-backed digital capabilities, state-friendly policy institutes, and cultural outreach – something that has been underappreciated by the democracies. Photo Credit: Tony Gentile, Reuters (as appears on the cover of  International Reporting)"Power 3.0 | Authoritarian Resurgence, Democratic Resilience" is a podcast that...The International Forum for Democratic Studies at The...As we celebrated World Press Freedom Day, the Center...In Mistrust We Trust: Can Transparency Revive Democracy?featuringIvan...In a new report by the International Forum for Democratic Studies, three experts...
#NED Mourns Liu Xiaobo#July 13, 2017#.embed-container { position: relative; padding-bottom: 56.25%; height: 0; overflow: hidden; max-width: 100%; } .embed-container iframe, .embed-container object, .embed-container embed { position: absolute; top: 0; left: 0; width: 100%; height: 100%; }The death of Chinese dissident and Nobel Peace laureate Liu Xiaobo is a devastating loss for the country’s democrats and peaceful advocates of gradual reform, the National Endowment for Democracy said today.“Liu’s passing robs China’s pro-democracy movement of its most consistent and eloquent voice,” said Carl Gershman, president of the National Endowment for Democracy. “He possessed a moral authority that his persecutors can only envy. The Chinese government’s refusal to allow Liu to travel abroad for medical care exposed the regime’s callous disregard for the most elemental humanitarian standards.”“We extend our profound sympathies to Liu’s wife, Liu Xia, herself a model of courage and integrity. And we express our solidarity with China’s democratic voices who will maintain and honor Liu’s commitment to peaceful democratic reform.”Liu was the co-recipient of the National Endowment for Democracy’s 2014 Democracy Award and the Washington-based democracy assistance group had already “deplored the unconscionable medical neglect” he and his wife, Liu Xia, have suffered since his imprisonment in 2009.Liu’s passing, from liver cancer, while guarded by state security agents, is the first time a Nobel laureate died in custody since 1938 when pacifist Carl von Ossietzky succumbed to tuberculosis while incarcerated in a hospital in Nazi Germany.Chinese political prisoners honored to mark 25th Tiananmen AnniversaryRep....The National Endowment for Democracy is proud to honor...NED President Carl Gershman presents the Disturbing...NED marks Tiananmen anniversary with tributes to Chinese...Carl Gershman's remarks at the presentation of the...
#Forum Q&A: Rafael Marques de Morais on Kleptocracy in Angola#July 5, 2017#TWEET | SHARE | PDFRafael Marques de Morais is a journalist and human rights defender with a special interest in political economy and human rights in Angola. He currently runs the watchdog website Maka Angola, dedicated to exposing corruption and human rights abuses in his country. His book, Diamantes de Sangue: Corrupção e Tortura em Angola [Blood Diamonds: Corruption and Torture in Angola] (2011) investigated corruption and human rights abuses in the Angolan diamond industry. In 2013, he was co-recipient of the Integrity Award given by Transparency International for his work in exposing corruption in Angola. He has also received numerous other awards, including the Gerald Loeb Award for International Reporting, the Journalism Award from Index on Censorship, and the Allard Prize for Integrity. In June 2017, Marques de Morais traveled to Washington, DC, where the National Endowment for Democracy honored him and other anti-corruption activists with its 2017 Democracy Award. Upon his return, the Angolan government indicted Marques de Morais for “outrage to a body of sovereignty and injury against public authority.”Angola is a resource-rich, major oil-producing country that nonetheless scores poorly on measures of human development. State funds that might improve living conditions in this nation of 25 million people are instead diverted to enrich the ruling elite and its network. It also scores poorly on Freedom House’s measures of political rights and civil liberties and on Transparency International’s Corruption Perceptions Index. Given its tightly-controlled and repressive governance system, Angola is frequently ranked as one of the most corrupt countries in the world.Melissa Aten of the International Forum for Democratic Studies spoke with Rafael Marques de Morais on the topic of kleptocracy and its effect on Angola’s development. (This interview has been condensed and edited for clarity. The views and opinions expressed here do not necessarily reflect those of the National Endowment for Democracy.) Melissa Aten: How does kleptocracy work in your country and what are its effects?Rafael Morais de Marques: Kleptocracy works in Angola as a hyper-centralized power within the presidency. The president basically distributes all the major businesses among his family and friends. It is up to the president to decide who gets the privilege of earning money in Angola.  The president’s family and a few generals and ministers control the entire economy of the country. [i]The other important aspect about kleptocracy in Angola has to do with the gatekeeping system. No foreign investor gets past the ruling elite without taking one as a partner to be favored in business deals in the country.  Oftentimes if it’s a major business venture, those Angolan partners will be the relevant ministers, members of the presidential family, or generals nominated by the president. When foreign investors hoping to open a company in Angola seek authorization from the government to do so, it is widely understood that they will often offer 25 percent of the deal for the decision-making power to allocate “as support for social programs,” but then the shares and profit end up in the pockets of a ruling family or proxies. Then the other sectors also need a piece of the pie and so on and so forth.During the election period, we are also hearing reports of public sector managers, especially outside the urban areas, being required to contribute between 30 to 100 percent of one month’s salary to support the ruling party’s activities, or they get demoted from their positions. How does kleptocracy impact development in Angola?The biggest effect of kleptocracy as it is now felt is that hospitals lack basic medicine and equipment such as syringes, bandages, disinfectant, and malaria pills. You go to children’s hospitals and you have three to five children sharing the same bed. For less privileged patients, relatives have to bring in rugs and the children just lay on the floor. Some of the biggest effects of kleptocracy can also be felt in the education system. Students go from first  grade to graduating university without studying, with their parents paying bribes to move them forward. So we now have university graduates who can’t write. This group of “graduating” students presents a major problem for the country’s future because we’re talking about at least two generations of people who will have to be retrained.You can’t have both kleptocracy and development. Kleptocracy means literally stealing the state’s assets wholesale for those in power, so they don’t leave money for development. In the case of Africa, influence is measured by how Western powers and companies deal with them to access resources or geostrategic interests. They siphon all the funds to the West and then measure themselves by the amount of wealth they have in the West. While Bill Gates needed to invent something, an African president needs to invent nothing to be a billionaire. He just needs to apportion the billions necessary to make the Forbes list. Do African kleptocrats attempt to influence regional African organizations, such as the African Union, to their favor?They try, and they have some successes. Angola served on the UN Security Council and UN Human Rights Council, but African organizations are actually not relevant to kleptocrats in Africa. They need the legitimacy given by the West, which is why they will spend millions of dollars on lobbyists in Washington. African kleptocrats already will not criticize each other in the African Union and other regional organizations, so it is not necessary to target them for influence. What is the role of Portugal in Angola’s kleptocracy?Portugal has been a laundromat for Angolan elites’ ill-gotten gains. It has been a co-perpetrator of the plunder of Angola. For example, the main shareholder of a Portuguese bank got into all kinds of shady deals with the Angolans, thinking they were smarter than the Angolans, but then the bank collapsed. We had at some point over 100,000 Portuguese workers in Angola, sending remittances worth over $250 million euro a year back to Portugal. Corruption in Angola and the lack of government trust in the human resources of its own people was of great benefit to Portugal. The takeover of the national oil company by Dos Santos’s daughter has been greatly beneficial to Portugal because she brought in a large team of Portuguese managers to help her. There’s hardly a respectable looter in Angola that doesn’t have a Portuguese manager. President dos Santos has promised to step down later this year after ruling Angola for nearly forty years. Assuming he keeps his word, what is the likelihood this alternation of power will decrease kleptocracy in Angola?Things have hit rock bottom. Two things could happen. Either the incoming president quickly changes the course of power by really cracking down on corruption, or he will not last long. There’s no money left in the country. In this environment, no outside investment will be made to help bail out the country unless serious economic measures are taken. I’m hopeful, because we are presented with an opportunity. It will require the willpower of citizens and leadership from within civil society to show whomever takes over power that they are under serious scrutiny and their powers will be checked on a daily basis. How can outside actors support efforts to combat kleptocracy in Angola?By helping to strengthen those inside the countries affected by kleptocracy to build strategies, investigate cases, and really mobilize resistance against kleptocracy. It is also necessary to start taking on litigation. It’s important to show people that we have all the laws required to combat kleptocracy, but those laws aren’t enforced.International organizations can be bogged down by theoretical arguments and narratives. Kleptocracy is not about arguments or narratives. It’s about a call to action on the rule of law, and on the enabling of asset flows around the world. For that, we need to know who is moving what, when and where, and how it can be stopped. All other theoretical conversations must be secondary to identifying the targets of these flows.[i] See Tom Burgis, The Looting Machine: Warlords, Oligarchs, Corporations, Smugglers, and the Theft of Africa’s Wealth (Perseus: New York, 2015), p. 10. Melissa Aten’s Q&A discussion with Judge Mark Wolf on creating and enforcing legal mechanisms to combat kleptocracy.Melissa Aten of the International Forum for Democratic Studies spoke with Ilya...The National Endowment for Democracy is proud to stand...Khalil Parsa is a key human rights advocate and anti-corruption...Melissa Aten of the International Forum for Democratic...With its 2017 Democracy Award, the National Endowment for Democracy recognizes...
#Martin Lee on the 20th Anniversary of Chinese Rule in Hong Kong#June 30, 2017#Martin Lee is a longtime leader of Hong Kong’s democracy movement and 1997 winner of NED’s Democracy Award. He spoke with NED recently about the 20th anniversary of the handover of Hong Kong from Britain to China. He also reflected on handing the torch of the democracy movement to young leaders like Joshua Wong.  Wong was arrested on June 28, 2017, along with fellow student leaders Nathan Law and Agnes Chow. Their arrests came in advance of Xi Jinping’s visit to Hong Kong to mark the anniversary of the handover.NED will honor defenders of human and religious rights...The National Endowment for Democracy will honor defenders...The April 2019 issue of the Journal of Democracy features a set of five articles...
#National Endowment for Democracy deplores Chinese government treatment of Liu Xiaobo#June 29, 2017#.embed-container { position: relative; padding-bottom: 56.25%; height: 0; overflow: hidden; max-width: 100%; } .embed-container iframe, .embed-container object, .embed-container embed { position: absolute; top: 0; left: 0; width: 100%; height: 100%; }FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASECONTACT:  Jane Riley Jacobsen, jane@ned.org, 202-378-9700WASHINGTON, DC – The National Endowment for Democracy (NED) deplores the unconscionable medical neglect suffered by Nobel Peace Prize Laureate Liu Xiaobo during his unjust imprisonment since 2009 for his efforts to advance democratic reform in China.  It was announced this week that Liu would be granted medical parole due to terminal, late-stage liver cancer.  Liu was the co-recipient of NED’s 2014 Democracy Award along with acclaimed legal scholar Xu Zhiyong, who remains in prison, pending the completion of his four-year sentence on July 15. “Liu Xiaobo is one of the great heroes of democracy, in the tradition of Feng Lizhi and Andrei Sakharov,” said NED president Carl Gershman.  “His imprisonment and cruel treatment by the Chinese government is a moral and political outrage.  Liu Xiaobo embodies the dream of a great China with genuine moral authority far better than do the country’s current leaders, who fear the eloquent and independent voice that Liu represents.  We pray for his health, admire his immense courage and integrity, and stand in solidarity with his hope for a democratic China.”Liu Xiaobo, who won the Nobel Peace Prize in 2010, was unable to receive the prize due to an 11-year prison sentence for his critical writings and role in launching Charter 08. The declaration calling for political reforms and human rights published in 2008 quickly garnered over 10,000 signatories from throughout China. Liu Xiaobo’s writing and publishing inspired an entire generation in China and played a major role in advancing democratic ideas and values. Among his many contributions were his work as editor of Democratic China magazine for several years until his arrest, and his tenure as president of the Independent Chinese PEN Center from 2003 to 2007. Both organizations received annual NED grants for many years.While the Endowment welcomes Liu’s medical parole, NED is deeply concerned about Liu’s welfare and urges the Chinese government to unconditionally release him and allow Liu and his wife Liu Xia to seek medical treatment wherever they wish.  NED stands in solidarity with Liu Xiaobo, Liu Xia, and all those who courageously seek a democratic future for the Chinese people.
#Winner of 2017 NED Democracy Award returns home to legal harassment#June 21, 2017#Contact:  Jane Riley Jacobsen, jane@ned.org, 202-378-9700Angolan Journalist Rafael Marques indicted for once again exposing government corruptionWASHINGTON, DC — The Office of the Attorney General in Angola indicted award-winning investigative journalist Rafael Marques de Morais for “outrage to a body of sovereignty and injury against public authority,” under the Law on Crimes against the State Security.In an article published on his anti-corruption watchdog website, Maka Angola, Mr. Marques exposed the illegality of Angola’s Attorney General (AG) to act as a property and real estate developer in addition to his legal duties. Mentioning documentary evidence of the land purchase, Mr. Marques contends that the act is in violation of the “Principle of Exclusive Dedication” clause in the Constitution. The article, published on November 3, 2016, also questioned the tolerance of the president, José Eduardo dos Santos, towards his subordinates who openly disobey the constitution.Mr. Marques was indicted upon his return from Washington, DC, where he was honored, along with four other anti-corruption activists, with the National Endowment for Democracy’s 2017 Democracy Award.   “Rafael Marques’ relentless efforts to expose corruption in Angola despite constant harassment and legal and physical threats to himself are exactly why the Endowment chose to honor him,” said NED president Carl Gershman. “We will be following this case closely, and I am sure many others in the media and international community who know and respect Rafael’s important work also be paying close attention,” said Gershman.Without providing much reasoning, the indictment states that as the publisher of Maka Angola, Mr. Marques is responsible for crimes against the State Security. In addition to the public charges cited above, Mr. Marques is also facing a civil suit from the Attorney General for abuse of freedom of the press, defamation, and injury.  Mr. Marques was previously imprisoned for his work in 1999, for calling President Dos Santos a dictator in an article titled The Lipstick of Dictatorship, and released after international advocacy efforts on his behalf.For more than two decades, Mr. Marques has been a staunch human rights defender as a journalist focused on investigating government corruption and abuses in the diamond industry. In addition to the NED award, which was presented to him in the United States Congress on June 7 by Congresswoman Karen Bass (D-CA), Mr. Marques has earned multiple international awards for his anti-corruption investigative work. This includes the Integrity Award from Transparency International (Germany, 2013), Gerald Loeb Award for International Reporting, UCLA Anderson School of Management (co-winner with Kerry A. Dolan, Forbes, New York, 2014) and the Allard Prize for Integrity from the British Columbia University (Canada, 2015).In his presentation, journalist and activist Mr. Rafael Marques de Morais examined...2018 Democracy Award will honors civil society movement...The National Endowment for Democracy to honor activists...Khalil Parsa is a key human rights advocate and anti-corruption...Marco Rubio congratulates the activists and honorees...2018 Democracy Award will honors civil society movement for human rights and...
#NED Chairman Judy Shelton Reflects on Westminster Address#June 8, 2017#“This speech was really the genesis of the National Endowment for Democracy.”.embed-container { position: relative; padding-bottom: 56.25%; height: 0; overflow: hidden; max-width: 100%; } .embed-container iframe, .embed-container object, .embed-container embed { position: absolute; top: 0; left: 0; width: 100%; height: 100%; }America's founding values are our nation's greatest...Marco Rubio congratulates the activists and honorees...We are pleased to announce its Fall 2018 cohort of...Andrew H. Card Jr., former White House chief of staff to President George W....
#NED Honors Legacy and Impact of President Reagan’s Westminster Address#June 8, 2017#.embed-container { position: relative; padding-bottom: 56.25%; height: 0; overflow: hidden; max-width: 100%; } .embed-container iframe, .embed-container object, .embed-container embed { position: absolute; top: 0; left: 0; width: 100%; height: 100%; }The Honorable Vin Weber testifies at the hearing on the Importance of U.S. Democracy...America's founding values are our nation's greatest...NED President Carl Gershman asks, "Does Democracy Matter?"...The National Endowment for Democracy (NED) will donate...This month, we celebrate the 35th anniversary of the Westminster Address.
#Sen. Marco Rubio’s Message to NED’s 2017 Democracy Awardees#June 8, 2017#The Senator congratulates the activists and honors the legacy of President Reagan’s Westminster Speech..embed-container { position: relative; padding-bottom: 56.25%; height: 0; overflow: hidden; max-width: 100%; } .embed-container iframe, .embed-container object, .embed-container embed { position: absolute; top: 0; left: 0; width: 100%; height: 100%; }Khalil Parsa is a key human rights advocate and anti-corruption leader in Afghanistan.2018 Democracy Award will honors civil society movement...The National Endowment for Democracy is proud to stand...Angolan Journalist Rafael Marques indicted for once...Mr. Rafael Marques de Morais is a journalist and human...Cynthia Gabriel is a human rights advocate and anti-corruption leader in Malaysia....
#Zbigniew Brzezinski Mourned by NED#May 29, 2017#The National Endowment for Democracy lost a staunch friend and advocate with the death Friday, May 26, 2017, of former Board Member Zbigniew Brzezinski.Brzezinski, who served on the Endowment’s Board of Directors from 1988-1997, was remembered by NED President Carl Gershman: “Zbigniew Brzezinski was a magnificent member of the NED Board.  He brought a deep commitment to the NED’s mission as well as a coherent strategic perspective informed by his historical optimism about the future of democracy.  He was greatly appreciated by the NED staff for his insight and his support, and for always raising the right questions.  When NED honored Zbig in 1997 for his nine years of service on the Board, he memorably said that “there is nothing more satisfying in life than to be associated with a cause in which one deeply believes…, which is just, and which is also a ‘winner.’”  Zbig helped make NED a stronger institution, and we will always remember him for the profound contribution he made to our work, and for his friendship.”The NED Board of Directors and the staff of the Endowment extend their deepest sympathy to the Brzezinski family, and to all the friends and colleagues of Dr. Brzezinski who were fortunate to benefit from his friendship, wise counsel, and unwavering commitment to the cause of human freedom and democracy.
#Anti-Corruption Fight is Focus of 2017 Democracy Award#May 16, 2017#CONTACT:  Jane Riley Jacobsen, 202-378-9604 or jane@ned.orgNational Endowment for Democracy to honor activists from Afghanistan, Angola, Guatemala, Malaysia, and UkraineThe National Endowment for Democracy (NED)’s 2017 Democracy Award will highlight the courageous efforts of five activists who are battling the scourge of official corruption in Afghanistan, Angola, Guatemala, Malaysia, and Ukraine.  NED will present its award at a June 7 Capitol Hill ceremony from 5:00 – 7:00 PM in room HVC 201-AB of the U.S. Capitol Visitors Center.  Speaker of the House Paul Ryan and House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi will make remarks at the presentation. Five other leading Members of Congress will present the awards, including NED Board members Reps. Karen Bass (D-CA) and Peter Roskam (R-IL), as well as Reps. Ed Royce (R-CA), Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), and Norma Torres (D-CA).“Counting the Cost: The impact of corruption on democratic growth and stability,” will be the topic of a morning event featuring the five honorees also on June 7 at NED’s Washington, DC office located at 1025 F Street, NW, Suite 800 from 8:30– 11:00 AM.  U.S. Senator Ben Cardin (D-MD) is confirmed as a keynote speaker.   CNN senior diplomatic correspondent Michelle Kosinski will moderate.“All over the world, brave individuals and organizations are calling on governments and official institutions to be accountable to citizens,” said NED president Carl Gershman. “Citizen movements are rising up to demand transparency and good government, often in response to the courageous work of activists like these five honorees, who have risked their careers, their freedom,  and their very lives to expose corruption and it’s terrible consequences.”The 2017 Democracy Award Honorees are:These events are open to the media.  Credentialed journalists must register in advance with NED public affairs by email: press@ned.org.The National Endowment for Democracy is a private, nonprofit, grant-making organization created in 1983 to strengthen democratic institutions around the world.  It is active in more than 90 countries, supporting grassroots, democratic initiatives.  More information about NED and the Democracy Award can be found at www.ned.org.# # #On August 4–6, 2014, NED seized the opportunity provided by the U.S.-Africa...Khalil Parsa is a key human rights advocate and anti-corruption...Melissa Aten of the International Forum for Democratic...Remarks presented by Rafael Marques de Morais during...Burundian human rights defender Faustin Ndikumana will...
#NED Mourns the loss of Eddie Williams#May 16, 2017#The Board and staff of the National Endowment for Democracy (NED) was saddened to learn of the passing of Eddie Williams, the founder of the Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies. Williams, who died May 8 at the age of 84, was a Board Member of the NED from 1988 – 1995.“Eddie Williams was a dedicated NED Board Member who was valued by everyone who worked with him,” said NED president Carl Gershman.“ He helped strengthen NED’s relations with the Congressional Black Caucus and, through the Joint Center for Political Studies, helped build new links between NED and civil society in Africa.  He was a man of great integrity and a true democrat.  We mourn his passing and will miss him greatly.”The Endowment extends its deepest sympathy to the family, friends and colleagues of Mr. Williams.
#Vin Weber’s Testimony at the Hearing on the Importance of U.S. Democracy Assistance#May 10, 2017#Testimony to Senate Appropriations Committee,  Subcommittee on Foreign Operations Appropriations  The Honorable Vin WeberCo-Vice Chairman, The National Endowment for DemocracyMay 9, 2017I want to begin by thanking you, Senator Graham, and Ranking Member Leahy for holding this important hearing today. Speaking on behalf of the National Endowment for Democracy and its new board chair, Judy Shelton, I also want to thank the Subcommittee for its unwavering support of NED and its mission.  We’re proud that the Subcommittee has recognized that NED is “uniquely positioned to lead a strategic response” to the grave threats facing democracy in today’s world.  With funds provided by the Subcommittee for this purpose, NED has begun to implement the response to these threats, among them the subversion of the information space by Russia and other autocracies, the repression of civil society, the rise of violent extremist movements, the growing influence of kleptocratic regimes, and the failure of democratic transitions in the Middle East and other regions.In its enumeration of NED’s unparalleled institutional assets, the Subcommittee has rightly noted NED’s decades of experience in tackling the toughest political challenges, its core institutes, and its global grants program and activist networks. I want to call attention to an additional asset that accounts for NED’s success, and that is its nongovernmental character.  NED’s independence has enabled it to respond quickly and effectively to rapidly changing problems.  It also makes it possible for NED to connect directly to the brave people who are at the cutting edge of the democracy struggles in the world. While NED is of course subject to congressional oversight, its mission is not to advance a particular U.S. policy or an agenda made in Washington.  It is to help build the institutions of a free society that will make it possible for people “to choose their own way, to develop their own culture, to reconcile their own differences through peaceful means.”Those words, Mr. Chairman, were spoken by President Ronald Reagan’s in his famed address to the British Parliament that launched the National Endowment for Democracy.  June 8 will mark the 35th anniversary of that seminal speech, when President Reagan declared that “We must be staunch in our conviction that freedom is not the sole prerogative of a lucky few, but the inalienable and universal right of all human beings.”  NED embodies that core American belief.Since NED was founded more than three decades ago, aiding democracy has become a bedrock foundational principle of America’s approach to the world.  Such work enjoys that standing because it advances America’s most important interests and also affirms our highest ideals. There are some people who believe that we have to choose between defending our interests and affirming our values.  They pose a false and dangerous dichotomy, since our interests and values are mutually reinforcing, as is maintaining both our military strength and our moral vision. President Reagan spoke to this issue in the Westminster Address with great eloquence and force. “Our military strength,” he said, “is a prerequisite to peace, but let it be clear we maintain this strength in the hope it will never be used.  For the ultimate determinant in the struggle now going on for the world will not be bombs and rockets, but a test of wills and ideas, a trial of spiritual resolve: the values we hold, the beliefs we cherish, the ideals to which we are dedicated.” These words continue to resonate today, especially among the people on the front lines of the struggle for democracy who benefit from NED’s support.Here’s what a few of them have said in messages prompted by this hearing:Mr. Chairman, if we cease supporting such brave people, our country will lose contact with its roots and values, and the result will be devastating for our national interests and moral identity.  So with your help, let us carry on with this worthy and absolutely essential work.  His Holiness the Dalai Lama will discuss the subject...Both activists shared their stories during Beyond...Read remarks by NED President Carl Gershman at “North...In Ho Park is the head of North Korean research at...Seoul-based Transitional Justice Working Group aims to map sites of mass killings...
#Shanthi Kalathil Testifies Before USCC on “China’s Information Controls, Global Media Influence, and Cyber Warfare Strategy”#May 4, 2017#Chairman Bartholomew, Commissioner Wortzel, distinguished members of the Commission: thank you for inviting me to testify before the Commission on the topic of “China’s Global Media Influence.” I appreciate the opportunity to discuss China’s efforts and impact in this area. I would also like to thank you for drawing attention to this issue of strategic importance to the U.S. and other democracies.China has long included the cultivation of global influence as part of its overall strategy to position itself as a rising, though nonthreatening, global power. Championed by a succession of Chinese leaders, this “soft power” focus has traditionally included media components such as pro-government reporting by Chinese state-run broadcasters and the cultivation of friendly overseas news outlets.In more recent years, though, the Chinese government’s strategy has evolved beyond these standard elements to reflect a much broader understanding of how command of media and communication constitutes power in the modern age. China, like other authoritarian states, grasps that the information space is an arena of contestation in which democracies are increasingly vulnerable. Moreover, China in particular understands that it is in shaping the related norms, standards, and corporate platforms inwhich the long-term opportunities for influence lie.Hence, China is also seeking to build out the infrastructure of the evolving global information ecosystem itself, targeting not simply media-related products but the mechanisms that determine what kinds of products are produced in the first place. This sets it apart from other authoritarian governments, in no small part due to China’s unique market leverage.Here, I’d like to present a broad, synthesized overview of China’s efforts to harness this evolving global information ecosystem. This overview will touch primarily on three media and communication-related mechanisms through which China seeks to exert influence: shaping international news; guiding the evolution of the Internet and its norms; and influencing global culture through Hollywood. Seen individually, any distinct piece might be glossed over as a discrete, isolated activity. Yet, taken together, they are indicative of an authoritarian government that has mobilized global information resources on a massive scale to project power, maximize its desired outcomes and protect its own rule.International News: Content, Values, and FundingChina has attempted to influence international news in three ways: influencing foreign reporting on China, extending its presence abroad through its international broadcasting and publication arms; and influencing the structure and values of news organizations, primarily in developing countries, through funding, training and cooperation.While the Chinese government has always monitored foreign reporters operating within China, this practice has expanded and grown more aggressive under current president Xi Jinping, who has instituted a wide and long-lasting crackdown on domestic civil society and media. Recent reports assert that foreign journalists in China now face greater restrictions than at any other time in recent history. The CCP seeks to influence international reporting through a combination of direct action, economic pressure to induce self-censorship by international media owners, indirect pressure applied via proxies  such as advertisers, and cyberattacks and physical assaults. Increasingly, these levers are applied beyond China’s own borders.This combination has had a cumulative chilling effect on the diversity of perspectives on China available in the international media. This is particularly true of Chinese language media. In some countries, such as Australia, local analysts report that the formerly lively, independent Chinese language media space now hews largely to the pro-China line, in part because pro-China media groups now control much of the Chinese language media sector. In supposedly autonomous Hong Kong, the local media hasdeveloped increasingly close ties to the Chinese government and friendly entrepreneurs; for instance, in 2015 the South China Morning Post was bought by Jack Ma, founder of AliBaba Group, China’s largest ecommerce conglomerate, and press watchdogs have raised concerns about that paper’s continuing editorial independence.With respect to international broadcasting and publication, the Chinese government is focused on amplifying China’s voice in the global media landscape, a landscape currently undergoing a seismic shift brought on by changes in access, technology, and business models. This period of flux has presented certain opportunities for China’s state-run and state-affiliated media, which do not suffer from the same budget pressures as their private sector international competitors. The international arm of China Central Television was rebranded China Global Television Network (CGTN) at the end of 2016, with all new foreign language channels, digital and video content falling under the new group. CGTN has hired away respected journalists from other outlets, and in general enjoys more editorial leeway than its domestic counterpart does (while never reporting on genuinely sensitive topics). Even before this recent rebranding, CGTN had significantly expanded its broadcasting footprint, opening major global offices in Washington, D.C. and Nairobi, and pouring financial resources into international news bureaus during a time when other major media outlets worldwide were forced to scale back their international coverage due to declining budgets. It is important to note that while CGTN may lack presence and authority in the U.S., it is increasingly viewed in many countries as simply another credible outlet that adds to the plurality of voices.New ventures may look more like overseas-targeted, English-language publication Sixth Tone, which is backed by state-owned Shanghai United Media Group, the same company that publishes the relatively lively domestic paper Pengpai. Sixth Tone features compelling human interest and trend stories with a local focus, skirting close to charged social and political issues without crossing the line into highly politically sensitive territory. Indeed, the tone, structure and social media adeptness of Sixth Tone may indicate the future of at least some Chinese state-affiliated media. (Foreign Policy magazine has described Sixth Tone as if “Vox were acquired by the Chinese Communist Party.”) As scholars of Chinese soft power note, Chinese media executives are well aware that market-driven, audience-savvy products can be far more effective in swaying perception than state-owned organs issuing stiff proclamations, and are more in line with what young, global digital natives desire.Finally, China has been involved in supporting the media and communication sectors of many countries in Latin America, Central and Eastern Europe, and Africa. It has done so through providing financial resources, infrastructure and equipment, study tours in China, and training. Unlike most international independent media donors, though, China does not support the typical normative goals of this kind of assistance: freedom of expression, editorial independence, technologically neutral protocols, and developing the professional and investigatory capacity of local journalists.Rather, the Chinese government’s primary purpose in providing this type of assistance is to counter what Chinese officials see as the unfavorable narrative about China in Western media, by developing a China-friendly media sector that will both portray China as a reliable partner and support China’s foreign policy positions and objectives. Moreover, the model of journalism presented in training and study tours emphasizes a cooperative approach that de-emphasizes the accountability aspect of journalism. Ugandan participants in Chinese media training and study tours, for instance, have said that classroom lectures did not focus on practical skills, emphasizing instead China’s history and politics, as well as the importance of the China-Africa relationship… Dean Jackson of the International Forum for Democratic Studies spoke with George...In an interview with Efecto Naim, NED Vice President...The July 2018 issue features an eight-article cluster...The April 2019 issue of the Journal of Democracy features...Pakistani journalist Nadeem F. Paracha explored the impact that viral hoaxes,...
#April 2017 Issue of the Journal of Democracy#May 3, 2017#For the first time ever the Journal of Democracy is devoting a set of articles to the state of democracy in the United States.“The 2016 U.S. Election”The populist convergence: William A. Galston examines the factors that have shaken many Americans’ trust in elites and institutions, and the implications for liberal democracy of the present “Populist Moment” in the United States and other Western countries.Are social media undermining democracy? Nathaniel Persily assesses the impact on the 2016 U.S. election and the democratic process more broadly of growing Internet phenomena such as bots, trolls, livestreaming, and the social-media fueled spread of sensationalist fake news.How nationalism endures: Ghia Nodia, in “The End of the Postnational Illusion,” considers why nationalism has defied social-scientific predictions to remain a potent force in modern polities around the globe.The April issue also features:For the complete Table of Contents, visit www.journalofdemocracy.org.***The Journal of Democracy is published quarterly in January, April, July, and October. Members of the press who wish to receive electronic access to the current issue should email our managing editor. To subscribe, visit https://www.press.jhu.edu/cgi-bin/order.cgi?oc_id=32. For more information, please visit our website or send us an email.Twentieth Anniversary Celebration - Journal of DemocracyDemocracy's Past and...The Embassy of Canada and The National Endowment for...In the January 2016 issue of the Journal of Democracy,...In an article published by The American Interest, Christopher...Please join us for a discussion on “Democratizing China: Insights from Theory...
#Remarks by Carl Gershman at the Conference on “The United States and Global Democracy Support”#April 20, 2017#Does Democracy Matter?Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, Washington, DCApril 20, 2017I want to start by congratulating Ambassador Adrian Basora, Agnieszka Marczyk, and Maia Otarashvili for publishing Does Democracy Matter? and for organizing this conference today, which presents a timely opportunity for our discussion not just about democracy assistance, but about democracy itself.  As everyone knows, this has been a difficult period for democracy, something that is suggested in the title of the book. The short answer to the question of whether democracy matters is that of course it does for many reasons having to do with human well-being, international peace and security, and our fundamental national interests.  The fact that people are asking this question today, and that it so urgently needs to be answered with convincing arguments, is a disturbing sign of the times.As it happens, the publication of this book and our conference today occur on the eve of the 35th anniversary on June 8 of Ronald Reagan’s Westminster Address, which remains the founding text for the democracy assistance effort – a little bit like what the Declaration of Independence is for our country.  There are many lessons for us in this Address, which was one of the great statements of the American belief in democratic universalism and of our country’s historic commitment to democracy for all people.The period when the Westminster Address was delivered was also not an easy time for democracy.  The United States had just been through years of traumatic division associated with the Vietnam War that ended the Cold-War consensus on foreign policy and led to a rise in isolationist sentiment.  Still fresh in peoples’ minds was Jimmy Carter’s famous “malaise” speech, in which he said that America faces “a crisis that strikes at the very heart and soul and spirit of our national will.”  The Soviet Union had just invaded Afghanistan, and less than 6 months earlier martial law had been declared in Poland, ending the brief period of Solidarity’s legal existence.  A sign of the times was Daniel Patrick Moynihan’s statement in an essay written in 1976, on the occasion of the U.S. bicentennial, that “democracy is where the world was, not where the world is going.”Thus, it was to rally the American people and the democratic world that Reagan went before the British Parliament to call for “a global campaign for freedom.” In retrospect, of course, we can see that this period, troubled as it was, was less bleak than it appeared at the time.  The question is whether the projection of democratic confidence and vision had anything to do with the coming collapse of communism in the captive nations of Central Europe and in the Soviet Union.  It’s hard to know, but surely it can be said that Reagan had seized the rhetorical – and possibly even the political – advantage when he declared that “the march of freedom and democracy…will leave Marxism-Leninism on the ash heap of history as it has left other tyrannies which stifle the freedom and muzzle the self-expression of the people.”It’s also true that what Samuel Huntington was later to call “the third wave of democratization” had imperceptibly already started when Reagan spoke, even though it still seemed a little far-fetched at the time to say, as Reagan did, that “around the world today the democratic revolution is gathering new strength.”  Huntington certainly believed that the international support for democracy, that was epitomized by the Westminster Address, was an important factor in contributing to democracy’s third wave.The current period is of course very different than the 1980s, and we can’t know if there are any hopeful changes lurking in the shadows of resurgent authoritarianism, democratic backsliding, and the rise of illiberalism – all of which may reflect the counter-trend to waves of democratic progress that Huntington called “reverse waves.”  Still, there are things that Reagan said at Westminster that bear repeating and remain true, even in the midst of our general discouragement.  For example, he said that “democracy is not a fragile flower” and that there is such a thing as democratic resilience, which we can see today in the robustness of civil society, even in some of the most repressive societies.  Of course, we also know that building the institutional infrastructure and culture of a liberal democracy is much more difficult than many of us once thought that it was.It’s also still true, as Reagan said at Westminster, that “It would be cultural condescension, or worse, to say that any people prefer dictatorship to democracy,” even though it has become profoundly important to reaffirm the first principles of democracy and freedom that are so often taken for granted or dismissed with a kind of cynical, relativist pseudo-sophistication.It’s also still true, as Reagan said, that “of all the millions of refugees we’ve seen in the modern world, their flight is always away from, not toward, the Communist [or totalitarian] world;” and that “Regimes planted by bayonets do not take root” and lack the legitimacy that comes with being freely elected, though that authoritarian regimes have learned to seek the appearance of legitimacy by organizing pseudo-elections monitored by what are called “zombie” election observers.There are many other ideas in the Westminster Address that remain relevant today, but in closing these brief introductory remarks, I want to call attention to just one of them, which was Reagan’s commitment to what he called “the competition of ideas and systems,” and his belief that “the ultimate determinant in the struggle now going on for the world will not be bombs and rockets, but a test of wills and ideas, a trial of spiritual resolve: the values we hold, the beliefs we cherish, the ideas to which we are dedicated.”We’re not doing very well today in this arena of competition, and therefore we have to think very hard not just about how to provide democracy assistance more effectively and efficiently, but about how we can reignite the flame of democratic conviction, especially among young people.I’ll leave it at that for now and am happy to turn the floor over to my friend Christian Caryl.In his new book, Post-Communist Mafia State, Dr. Bálint Magyar explores how,..."Media is rapidly changing form and function, forcing...On May 2, 2019, the National Endowment for Democracy...
#NED welcomes new Reagan-Fascell fellows from Guatemala, Uganda, Iraq, Bolivia, Bangladesh, Ecuador, Kenya and Jordan#April 18, 2017#On May 2, 2019, the National Endowment for Democracy hosted a discussion of...How (Not) to Write an African Constitution: Reflections...Political economist Gabor Scheiring examined the socioeconomic...Liberia’s continued lack of transparency poses a...
#NED Mourns the loss of Edward Donley#April 11, 2017#The Board of Directors and staff of the National Endowment for Democracy were deeply saddened to learn the news of the passing of former NED Board member Edward Donley, who died on April 1, 2017 at the age of 95.  Mr. Donley, a business leader and philanthropist from the Lehigh Valley of Pennsylvania was the longtime president, chairman, and CEO of Air Products, Inc.   Donley served on the NED Board of Directors from 1991-2000  and served as the chairman of the Endowment’s Budget and Audit Committee.“Everyone who worked with Ed Donley during his nine years of service on the NED board remembers him as a great gentleman,” said NED president Carl Gershman. “He was a man of immense integrity, wise judgment, and deep commitment to the principles of human freedom and social responsibility.  The NED is a stronger institution because of his service.  We mourn  his passing and remember him with great fondness, gratitude, and respect.”The entire NED family extends its deepest sympathy to the family and friends of Edward Donley, and to all those who benefitted from his generous spirit and wise counsel.
#New CIMA Report: Media Development in the Digital Age: Five Ways to Engage in Internet Governance#March 23, 2017#The digital convergence means that how the Internet develops going forward — both in terms of policy and technology — will shape the very environment in which all other media operate. This report makes the case to this community that they can, and must, engage in the decision-making bodies that are shaping Internet governance (IG) to ensure that the Internet — and the growing media sphere it sustains — remains open, pluralistic, and democratic.Read the full report.Join us on Friday, April 28, for a discussion with leading experts in Ukrainian...By the People: The Role of Citizen Journalism in the...TAKING STOCK: Top Media Development Practitioners on...The world has reached a tipping point in the state...The National Endowment for Democracy (NED) was shocked...Denys Bihus leads TOM 14, a group of professional investigative journalists...
#International Women’s Day 2017#March 8, 2017#On this International Women’s Day, we honor NED grantees who are “taking action to make a difference” for women around the world. Whether leading the charge to pass legislation against sexual harassment in Pakistan, or providing a voice for women before Bolivia’s courts, NED grantees are leading advocates for women and women’s rights, even in the most restrictive and authoritarian environments.NED is proud to stand with these bold women as they Take Action to Make a Difference.Zainab Bangura is the UN Special Representative of the United Nations Secretary General on Sexual Violence in Conflict. But much earlier in her career, she was a democracy activist in Sierra Leone, where she served as Executive Director of the National Accountability Groups, Chair and Co-founder of the Movement for Progress Party of Sierra Leone, and Coordinator and Co-founder of the Campaign for Good Governance. She was targeted for assassination for her forceful stand against war atrocities, and withstood political pressure for her work against corruption. She received NED’s Democracy Award in 2006, and currently serves on the Steering Committee of the World Movement for Democracy. Learn more about her story in this #IWD special video.    Glanis Changachirere is the Founder and Director of the Institute for Young Women Development in Zimbabwe (IYWD).The organization provides a platform “where young women can organize and come together to live a life where they have a choice in how to lead their lives and have a sustainable livelihood.” IYWD targets the most marginalized to participate: young women who live in rural communities and work in farming and mining.Glanis became involved in her crusade for women’s rights as a result of her strong desire to receive an education. She defied the norms of a highly patriarchal society and enrolled in university where she joined the Student Representatives’ Council as the only woman. She says she joined the student movement to fulfill her desire to say that “women are equal to our male counterparts and can equally represent their fellow students.” Watch Girl Child, the World Movement video about Glanis’s work. Julieta Montaño is the founder of Oficina Jurídica de la Mujer (OJM).The organization works in Cochabamba, Bolivia, and promotes women’s rights as a pillar of democratic development, offering legal assistance to women in cases of rape, sexual assault, and domestic abuse. With NED support, OJM litigates significant women’s rights cases and works with the judiciary to ensure that Law 348, which criminalizes violence against women, is enforced. To this end, OJM drafts petitions and press releases condemning anyone not brought to justice when found in violation of Law 348 – including politicians like former Santa Cruz Mayor Percy Fernández. Documenting the situation of vulnerable women, including women prisoners and police officers, OJM regularly produces shadow human rights reports, presenting them before the United Nations Human Rights Council, as well as the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights. OJM is considered one of the most authoritative voices on women’s rights in Bolivia and Latin America. Read more about Julieta’s work in Bolivia.Fouzia Saeed led a nationwide alliance against sexual harassment in Pakistan.The Alliance Against Sexual Harassment at the Workplace (AASHA) was an initiative of six organizations (Mehergarh, Action AID, Bedari, Interactive Resource Centre, Hawwa Associates, and Pakistan Institute of Labor Education and Research) committed to ending sexual harassment at the workplace. Though it took a decade of committed effort from hundreds of women, Fouzia’s authorship of anti-harassment legislation, and her success in lobbying for its passage in 2010, gained recognition across Pakistan and set the foundation for future reforms.When the AASHA movement started in 2001, no organization in Pakistan, other than the United Nations, had a sexual harassment policy. Under the law “Protection from Harassment at Workplace 2008,” every organization is now required to have a sexual harassment policy in place. Watch I Was Not Alone, the World Movement video about Fouzia’s charge against sexual harassment.   Pakistani journalist Nadeem F. Paracha explored the...Carl Gershman gives an interview to Oslobodjenje, Bosnia...Julieta Montaño, NED grantee of the Bolivian NGO Oficina Jurídica...
#New CIMA Report: Beyond the Great Firewall: How China Became a Global Information Power#March 7, 2017#Now over a decade old, the “Great Firewall of China” has been dubbed the world’s largest system of censorship. China, however, is no longer content to limit its reach to a domestic audience. Without much fanfare, the Chinese government has turned its focus outward, seeking to take its influence over the information environment global. In her CIMA report, Shanthi Kalathil delves into China’s unprecedented attempts to harness the global information ecosystem, primarily through three avenues: shaping international news media, guiding the evolution of the global Internet, and influencing global culture through Hollywood. What emerges is an altered understanding of the ways in which authoritarian regimes like China can wield information resources as power in the global arena.Read the full report.Apr 30, 2015Forum Launches New Website: "Resurgent Dictatorship: The...Read remarks by NED President Carl Gershman at “North...NED President Carl Gershman's remarks at 2019 NED Democracy...How the Internet is governed and develops in the future...
#NED Mourns the Passing of Michael Novak#February 17, 2017#It was with great sadness that the Board of Directors and staff of the National Endowment for Democracy (NED) learned of the passing of former NED Board member Michael Novak who died this morning, February 17, at the age of 83.Novak, who was a scholar at the Washington-based American Enterprise Institute for three decades and focused on the role of religion in public life, was a member of the NED Board of directors from 2000 – 2008 and served as the Board regional expert for Europe.“Michael Novak was a great intellectual and a great American whose devotion to the cause of democracy was appreciated by everyone who knew and worked with him,” said NED president Carl Gershman. “We will miss his intellectual leadership, and also his friendship and human warmth. We are all enriched for having known him.” The National Endowment for Democracy extends its deepest sympathy to the Novak family and to all those privileged to know and work with Michael.
#Carl Gershman’s Remarks at the Democracy and Human Rights: The Case for U.S. Leadership Hearing#February 16, 2017#Click here to watch the full testimony. Mr. Chairman, I want to thank you for holding this very timely and important hearing on the importance of U.S. leadership in supporting human rights and democracy in the world.  As we know too well, democracy today is being challenged as never before since the end of the Cold War.  The crisis has many dimensions, including the rise of ISIS and other terrorist movements; growing illiberalism in Turkey, Hungary, the Philippines and other backsliding democracies; eleven consecutive years of decline in global democracy, as measured by Freedom House; and, most importantly, what the letter of invitation to this hearing calls “resurgent authoritarianism.”An editorial in The Washington Post last June defined resurgent authoritarianism as a modern-day version of the totalitarian threat that Winston Churchill decried in his famous “iron curtain” address in 1946.  “No longer is it about communism,” the editorial said, “but rather the rise of despots who rule by force and coercion, from Russia to China, across the Middle East and Central Asia, to Latin America and Africa. In the past decade, these leaders have become more adept — and daring — at building a parallel universe to the liberal democratic order. In their construct, state power reigns supreme, political competition is extinguished, civil society elbowed out, and freedoms of expression, association and belief suppressed.  Surprisingly, some of these leaders, particularly in Russia and China, have been wielding a sophisticated and deceptive soft power beyond their borders that is proving more enduring and effective than in the past.”The Congress, through the appropriations process, has called upon NED to develop a strategic response to this new threat, saying that NED is “uniquely positioned” to do so because of its “decades-long experience working in the most hostile political terrain through the core institutes and its global grants and programs.”    Building on work that was already being done through its ongoing grants programs and research activities, in 2016 NED was able to identify and fund start-up programs to address six key strategic challenges:  NED’s strategic grants complement its on-going grants program in some 90 countries, strengthening its response to the formidable and integrated threat posed by the new wave of authoritarianism.  We are finding new ways to tie programs together across regions, to stimulate broader international partnerships and coalitions, and to take sometimes isolated innovations and scale them up to a level that makes them more effective.Remarkably, these programs are reaching brave activists who are fighting for fundamental rights in some of the harshest political environments.  These activists include North Korean defectors who are helping to break the information blockade that Pyongyang has used to keep the North Korean people totally isolated.  They include Chinese lawyers who are defending religious freedom and the rule of law against harsh repression that is being urged on by the chief justice of the Supreme Court, who recently called upon provincial judges to “show the sword” against the idea of judicial independence. They include Cubans who are not only fighting for basic rights and political space, but who are expanding their support networks by organizing around issues of local citizen concern.  They include Venezuelans who, in addition to their continuing programs to defend human rights and reduce political polarization, are tracking food and medical shortages to help coordinate the response of relief agencies to the worsening humanitarian crisis.They include Iraqi community activists and members of local councils and governments who are implementing start-up efforts to rebuild governance, promote economic development and reconciliation, and build trust at the local level between the community and the security services in the areas liberated from ISIS control.Not least, they include Russian journalists, human rights defenders, and civic activists, many of whom have been declared “foreign agents” and must defend themselves in court against crippling fines, but who still fight for basic rights and take great risks in exposing the kleptocratic practices of Russia’s ruling class. We recognize, Mr. Chairman, that the battles these activists, and others like them around the world, are fighting will be long and hard.  Democracy does not come swiftly or easily.  We must recognize that trying to take short-cuts to democracy is as dangerous as relying on autocrats to preserve stability.  Either way, we will reap the whirlwind.  And we should not forget that even when democracy is eventually achieved, it must be defended with eternal vigilance, as Thomas Jefferson once said.  It must never be taken for granted, even in our own country.Those who are fighting for democracy deserve the support of the American people, and through the NED they receive it.  They are defending the values we hold dear.  They are the ones who will bring real democracy and, through that, lasting stability.  In striving to fulfill their aspirations, they are advancing our own fundamental national interests.  They are helping us live in a safer and more peaceful world, and for that they deserve our solidarity. Over the past decade, leading illiberal powers have become emboldened and gained...A half-day international conference celebrating the...In the January 2016 issue of the Journal of Democracy,...NED President Carl Gershman asks, "Does Democracy Matter?"...On September 18, 2007, the National Endowment for Democracy will present its...
#Dr. Judy Shelton is New Chairman of National Endowment for Democracy#February 8, 2017#WASHINGTON, DC – Dr. Judy Shelton was elected the new Chairman of the National Endowment for Democracy (NED) by NED’s Board of Directors at its January 10, 2017 meeting.  An economist who has written widely on issues of international finance and monetary policy, she has also been consulted on international economic and financial issues by the Congress, the White House, and the Pentagon.  Shelton previously served on the NED Board from 2005-2014, and was Vice Chairman from 2010-2014.  “Judy is deeply devoted to the NED’s mission,” said NED president Carl Gershman.  “She admires the courage of democracy activists around the world, and will be able to provide strong leadership at a time when democracy is being tested as never before since the end of the Cold War.” Shelton holds a Ph.D. in Business Administration, with an emphasis on finance and international economics, from the University of Utah. She received a postdoctoral fellowship from the Hoover Institution at Stanford University as a National Fellow, was named as a Hoover scholar, and was subsequently appointed Senior Research Fellow (1985-1995).  She was an economic advisor for the National Commission on Economic Growth and Tax Reform chaired by Jack Kemp (1995-1996), was a founding member of the board of directors of Empower America, and has also served on the board of directors for Hilton Hotels and Atlantic Coast Airlines.  Shelton joined the Atlas Network in 2010, where she serves as Senior Fellow.She is the author of The Coming Soviet Crash: Gorbachev’s Desperate Pursuit of Credit in Western Financial Markets (1989) and Money Meltdown: Restoring Order to the Global Currency System (1994). Her opinion pieces appear in The Wall Street Journal, Financial Times, The Hill, The Weekly Standard and the Cato Journal.   Shelton, succeeds the Hon. Martin Frost, who has served as NED Chairman since 2013.  “Martin has been a very wise Board Chairman, combining political astuteness with democratic commitment and exemplifying NED’s bipartisan character and mission,” said Gershman.  “We are deeply grateful to him for his extraordinary leadership.” The National Endowment for Democracy was created in 1983 as a private, nonprofit, grant-making foundation with a mission to strengthen democratic institutions around the world through nongovernmental efforts. With an annual appropriation from the U.S. Congress, the NED Board, which is independent and bipartisan, makes more than 1400 grants each year to support prodemocracy groups in nearly 90 countries. The Endowment supports projects that promote political and economic freedom and participation, human rights, a strong civil society, independent media and the rule of law.
#REMARKS BY THE SECRETARY GENERAL OF THE OAS at Latin America & The Liberal World Order#February 2, 2017#Democracy and Human Rights are under strain in some parts of the hemisphere – but the OAS has unique instruments and tools to ensure their eventual triumph over inequality, social exclusion, corruption, the erosion of political rights, and the closure of civic space.Dear friends,I want to thank Christopher Sabatini of Global Americans and our hosts here at the National Endowment for Democracy for the opportunity to address you this morning.The Latin America we recognize today is radically different from only a few decades ago, when authoritarian or military regimes were the norm.Today, democracy is the most common form of government in the Americas.We have built a Hemisphere on a foundation of the shared values we believe in – a vision of inclusiveness, democracy, universal freedoms and human rights.These principles – the very core of the OAS – are clearly articulated in our founding documents – the OAS Charter, the American Charter of Human Rights, the Inter-American Conventions, and the Inter-American Democratic Charter.The promise and opportunity of the Hemisphere lie in these shared values of more democracy, rights, security and prosperity for all. This is why I’ve made the theme of “More Rights for More People” the centerpiece of my administration.The OAS is a forum created by and for Member States to come together in meaningful dialogue to achieve the fulfillment of this shared vision for the Americas.We are meeting today, in Washington, DC, the capital of the United States and where the headquarters of the OAS calls home. In 1889, at the invitation of the Government of the United States we began the process we recognize as the Inter-American system, a process that continues uninterrupted, to this day.That first international Conference of American States was held to discuss and recommend “for adoption to their respective Governments some plan of arbitration for the settlement of disagreements and disputes that may hereafter arise between them, and for considering questions relating to the intercourse and means of direct communication between said countries.”Eighteen American States took part in the first conference, and since the forum has grown to include all 35 States in the Americas, looking at issues from inter-state relations, to commercial issues, to border disputes, to collective security. Today, these are organized under the four pillars of the OAS; democracy, human rights, integral development and multidimensional security.The purpose of this institution is to guide and facilitate the relationship between countries in our hemisphere. We are as strong as our strongest member and as weak as our weakest link.The United States played an integral role by bringing us all together. This is the only regional institution that includes all 35 states in the Americas. Each Member State plays an essential role in making these relationships work and just as inter-state relations have their strengths and weaknesses, so does this institution.This Hemisphere remains one of the most unequal in the world, and its citizens are tired of the exclusion, weary of racism, persecution, and sterile conflicts that drag-on needlessly.Over the years we have collectively identified and negotiated these values, creating agreements that guide this institution and our interactions with one another. Each Member States chose to negotiate and sign onto these principles defining who we are, what we believe, and how we interact with one another.As Member States and as citizens, we have a responsibility to ensure that these rights are protected. Our members states are each unique; be it size, population, demographics, wealth or influence. For some, an individual state’s actions can affect the entire continent.We built this institution to help close these divides and find common interests where we can work together. Multilateral institutions make collective effort feasible.Collective action offers legitimacy where the efforts of an individual country may come up short. In turn, governments are more likely to participate if there is an institutional framework or collective interest, over an individual ask.Individual Member States determine how well this institution works.If Member States want a strong OAS, and a strong relationship between American States they will create one. If they want to isolate themselves, and focus on unilateral interests, no longer cooperating with one another, they will do so.We are at an interesting moment in modern history. There appears to be a growing appetite for populist politics in some of the most developed economies around the world.We must resist a shift towards isolationism, where communities retreat into what and who they know, and instead renew our commitments to pluralism, openness and inclusivity.This also holds true about the state of democracy. Across the hemisphere, countries use a diverse set of democratic systems, at different stages of political maturity and consolidation.Democracy is a process, not an end. There is no single solution that will work for everyone.Today’s democracies are stronger, offering better social protection with more integrated economies. However, we cannot take this for granted. Citizens have a responsibility as much as a right. It is more than an election, it is what comes after.Democracy is freedom of expression, association, and assembly. It is a transparent and accountable government that serves the people. It is an empowered citizen – strong civil society – a vocal, engaged opposition – a vibrant, independent media – an independent judiciary – and a security apparatus that is trusted by and accountable to the people.Most importantly, it requires a tolerance of dissent.We cannot become complacent because there are real and present risks in many countries across the region. With growing demands from citizens throughout the Hemisphere, the principal threats and challenges are a result of weak government institutions and poor social services.Weak rule of law and growing insecurity, inequality and social exclusion; political polarization, corruption, the erosion of political and human rights, weak political parties, and the closure of civic space all undermine democratic consolidation.Corruption has proven to be a central challenge to the success of the region’s growth and stability because it not only affects citizens economically but undermine the public’s trust in the governments elected to serve them.Across the Americas, political corruption has mobilized citizens to take to the streets to demand transparency and accountability, and end impunity. Political campaigns have been fought, and won over it.In Honduras, the bold and ambitious Mission to Support the Fight against Corruption and Impunity in Honduras, the MACCIH, was established to respond to the people protests and indignation over government corruption.We must continue fight every day against corruption to address the enormous inequalities our citizens face and ensure more rights.Fundamental freedoms, human rights, and democracy do not only exist when it is convenient. They must exist always. You have to care as much as about your opponent’s rights to express their views, as you do about your own.This is why one of the most important roles that the OAS plays in the Hemisphere is its facilitation of dialogue for the prevention, management and resolution of crisis and conflict. This is why we can also offer a voice to those who have been excluded the democratic processes in their own countries.Dialogue is not simply about words. In order for dialogue to be effective, it must also be accompanied by action, with results that come in a reasonable time frame.A lack of dialogue is the first sign of failure in a political system because dialogue cannot exist when voices are not heard, or when voices have been silenced.In Venezuela, we are witness to a process of dialogue that did not serve to help strengthen democracy in the short-term.This past fall, the opposition in Venezuela had galvanized the citizenry behind a constitutional solution to the political crisis through the recall referendum. This constitutional solution was not achieved.The International Community had used the Inter-American Democratic Charter and the democratic clause in MERCOSUR to help pressure the regime in Caracas regime to find a democratic solution.With this momentum, the Opposition agreed to a new phase of the dialogue, and this phase dialogue has moved backwards- the National Assembly lost even more power through decisions of the Supreme Court; the total amount of political prisoners has grown; Inflation continues to grow to unprecedented levels, while the GDP is in freefall; and the last opportunity for a constitutional solution – the recall referendum has passed.The insincere dialogue process has failed instead only serving to perpetuate the conditions.The ethical and moral values that we define in the Inter-American Democratic Charter, the OAS Charter or the Inter-American Convention on Human Rights, mean nothing, if we do not make them a daily reality for the people of the Americas.When there are violations, we have an obligation to address them. Words are not enough; we must be prepared to act- Especially when it is difficult to do so.Jose Antonio Marina says that the reason our societies fail is because we develop unjust societies. When we lose these values, we all lose; society loses. This is why I took the job of Secretary General. It is my responsibility to champion and protect these values at the core of this institution, and at the very heart of the Americas.We can achieve more rights for more people and I take this responsibility to heart.The OAS, this community of states, is vital to ensuring the fullest possible observance of human rights in the Hemisphere, and an essential instrument for safeguarding democracy.We have created an institution with the mechanisms and tools to champion and defend these rights and values. Now Member States must choose to enforce them.Join a distinguished group of panelists for a discussion on recent election...Michael Coppedge is professor of political science...Please join the Council of the Americas, Americas Quarterly,...Central America Citizen (In)security Index: Improving...Transparency and the Struggle for Accountability in...Alexander Cooley, Steven Heydemann, Ronald Deibert, and Christopher Sabatini...
#January 2017 Issue of the Journal of Democracy#January 18, 2017#Is liberal democracy in trouble? What are Brexit’s implications for the U.K. and its party system? How did Turkey’s Erdoğan defeat the attempted coup? “Democratic Deconsolidation”The recent electoral successes of populist candidates in Europe and the United States have raised new questions about the durability of liberal democracies. In “The Signs of Deconsolidation,” Roberto Stefan Foa and Yascha Mounk argue that survey evidence of citizen disenchantment with liberal democracy should serve as an “early warning sign” that liberal democracy may be more vulnerable than it looks. Their research, profiled by the New York Times and the subject of widespread media coverage and public debate since its prerelease, deepens our understanding of democracy’s current troubles.“Britain After Brexit”The United Kingdom’s June 2016 vote to leave the European Union upended opinions about the global strength of populism, the state of the British party system, and the longevity of the EU. In “A Nation Divided,” Robert Ford and Matthew Goodwin explain the long-term social and attitudinal shifts in Britain that made “Brexit” possible. Other essays in this cluster explore the implications of Brexit for peace in Northern Ireland; the referendum’s effect on Scotland’s future place within the U.K.; and the deep cleavages Brexit exposed in the British party system.“Turkey’s Failed Coup”Since the coup attempt in Turkey on 15 July 2016, a state of emergency has been imposed, tens of thousands have been fired from their jobs or jailed, and democratic safeguards have been rolled back. In “Turkey: How the Coup Failed,” Berk Esen and Sebnem Gumuscu review the events of that night and explain how President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan’s Justice and Development Party (AKP) was able to thwart the putsch. They also consider how the attempted coup and the massive crackdown that ensued will shape Turkey’s future.The January issue also features:For the complete Table of Contents, visit www.journalofdemocracy.org.***The Journal of Democracy is published quarterly in January, April, July, and October. Members of the press who wish to receive electronic access to the current issue should email our managing editor. To subscribe, visit https://www.press.jhu.edu/cgi-bin/order.cgi?oc_id=32. For more information, please visit our website or send us an email.The January 2018 issue features 7 articles on transnational kleptocracy, an...Dean Jackson of the International Forum for Democratic...Twentieth Anniversary Celebration - Journal of DemocracyDemocracy's...The October 2018 issue of the Journal of Democracy features a seven-article...
#“The Signs of Deconsolidation”: Pre-Release Journal of Democracy Essay (January 2017)#December 9, 2016#Recent political developments in both Europe and the United States have raised new questions about the stability of liberal democracies. Building on their earlier article, “The Danger of Deconsolidation: The Democratic Disconnect,” in the July 2016 Journal of Democracy, Roberto Foa and Yascha Mounk argue in the January 2017 Journal of Democracy that survey evidence of citizen disenchantment should serve as an “early warning sign.” It suggests that democracy may turn out to be precarious even in countries where scholars thought it had been fully “consolidated.”Foa and Mounk’s research shows that the problem of declining citizen commitment to liberal democracy is not restricted to the United States, but in fact can be found “across all longstanding democracies.” They acknowledge that the phenomenon they identify as “democratic deconsolidation” is still “an unexplored area of the conceptual map,” but they begin the task of charting this new territory. “The work of Professors Foa and Mounk makes a signal contribution to our understanding of democracy’s current troubles.  Anyone who cares about the future of liberal democracy will want to read their newest essay,” noted Journal of Democracy coeditors Marc F. Plattner and Larry Diamond.How Stable are Democracies? ‘Warning Signs are Flashing Red’ by Amanda Taub,  The Interpreter, New York Times (November 29, 2016)Debunking the myth that millennials are ushering in the end of the Western world by Jeff Guo, Monkey Cage, Washington Post (December 2, 2016)That viral graph about millennials’ declining support for democracy? It’s very misleading. by Eric Voeten, Monkey Cage, Washington Post (December 5, 2016) Dr. Lilia Shevtsova delivered the 11th Annual Seymour...The January 2019 issue of the Journal of Democracy...NOV 25, 2014Journal of Democracy Classics: "Democracy's Third Wave"Forum...
#NED’s Kamissa Camara Talks About Long-serving African Leaders Ceding Power#December 5, 2016#Kamissa Camara of the National Endowment for Democracy talks to CNNI’s Jonathan Mann about what this means for the future of Gambia, Angola and Africa.Source: CNNThe Ebola outbreak highlights the systemic corruption and lack of government...The October 2016 issue features seven essays on the...The International Forum for Democratic Studies asked...Senior Director of Africa Programs testifies at Hearing...Tabish Forugh, a Reagan-Fascell Fellow at the National Endowment for Democracy,...
#Journal of Democracy October 2016 Issue: The Specter Haunting Europe#October 20, 2016#When Karl Marx proclaimed in 1848 that “a specter is haunting Europe,” he gave it a name–communism. The specter haunting Europe today does not have so clear an identity. It consists of political tendencies that are called by a variety of names, are found on both the right and the left, and are typically anti-establishment, anti-immigrant, anti-globalization, anti-EU, anti-American, and sometimes openly anti-democratic.“The Specter Haunting Europe”Seven essays under this heading address the growing threats to Europe’s liberal democracies. In “Distinguishing Liberal Democracy’s Challengers,” Takis Pappas opens the discussion by mapping out the landscape of parties–antidemocrats,” “nativists,” and “populists”–that are challenging Europe’s liberal-democratic consensus. Ivan Krastev concludes the section with “The Unraveling of the Post-1989 Order,” a far-ranging set of reflections that call for a new understanding of the post-Cold War era and explain why the migration issue is at the center of the current European crisis. In between are essays on Germany, France, and Poland, on the decline of the European left, and on the especially severe regression of liberal democracy in East-Central Europe.“Iraq’s Year of Rage”“Iraqis are fed up,” Mieczysław P. Boduszyński writes. “Even as they wage war on ISIS they are also battling their own country’s corrupt and ineffective political elite.” Since 2015, Iraqis of all ethnic and sectarian stripes have been turning out en masse to protest against their political elite. Boduszyński explains why.The October issue also features:For the complete Table of Contents, please visit www.journalofdemocracy.org. Photo: Leon Yaakov/FlickrMoldova’s Democratic Transition: 20 Years of Challenges and SuccessesSponsored...In this episode of Democracy Ideas, Anne-Marie Brady...The October 2017 issue features six essays on Russia's...Read Carl Gershman's keynote address delivered for... The experts on this panel examined the key issues that Georgia must address...
#Democracy Aid in Challenging Contexts: APSA-CD Newsletter October 2016#October 19, 2016#“Amidst the current global authoritarian advance, political conditions for democracy aid are becoming increasingly challenging. In many countries, democracy promoters face the resistance of ever more self-confident authoritarian incumbents and their international allies. State fragility and civil war further impede international efforts to support democracy. Thus, doubts about the effectiveness of democracy aid are spreading,” writes guest editor Anna Lurhmann in her introduction to the APSA-Comparative Democratization October 2016 newsletter exploring “Democracy Aid in Challenging Contexts.”APSA-CD Newsletter is produced three times per year and features 3-5 original articles on democratization, as well as bibliographic information on new research from leading political scientists and academic journals.The International Forum for Democratic Studies serves as the Secretariat for the APSA-Comparative Democratization section, and each issue of APSA-CD is jointly produced by the Forum and the Varieties of Democracy Institute (V-Dem) at the University of Gothenburg. Photo Credit: Josh Estey/Flickr (Creative Commons)"Media is rapidly changing form and function, forcing political leaders to quickly...Reporting on the state of civil society in Iraqi Kurdistan,...Thomas Carothers is the vice president for studies...The June edition features seven articles written by...
#Madeleine Albright’s Remarks: The Legacy of Vaclav Havel and the Future of Democracy#October 6, 2016#Wednesday, October 5, 2016Washington, DCThank you, Carl Gershman, for those remarks, and my thanks to you and the National Endowment for Democracy for organizing this conference and for doing so much to uphold the legacy of Vaclav Havel.I am delighted to be able to participate in today’s sessions alongside so many dear friends, including Michael Zantovsky – who wrote the definitive biography of Havel, and played a key role in his transformation from intellectual-troublemaker to intellectual-troublemaking statesman.Along with so many in this audience, I benefited immensely from both Havel’s intellect and his troublemaking. And while his accomplishments as a statesman made him a hero to me, what I valued most was the precious friendship he and I shared.We held countless formal meetings in Prague and Washington, but I remember Havel most vividly in casual settings, when he felt free to talk about whatever was on his mind – from music and theater to the frustrations of politics and the mysteries of the universe.As we approach what would have been his 80th birthday, there have been many fitting tributes to his work and legacy.I recently received, for example, a small bell from Bill and Wendy Leurs.The bell was sent to them by the Charta 77 foundation as part of an effort to raise awareness of his birthday, and to raise money for a larger one that they plan to install in the Church of St. Havel in Prague.I was asked to sign a book that went along with the bell, to take a picture with it, and to get others to do the same.Well it happened that the bell’s arrival coincided with the official visit of Daw Aung San Suu Kyi to Washington, and I was scheduled to see her.Naturally, I decided to bring the bell with me – which made for a rather noisy entrance.I’m not sure what exactly Daw Suu thought was happening, but once I said the name “Havel” she was more than happy to sign the book, and pose for a selfie.Bells aside, it was fitting for me to have an opportunity to talk to her about Vaclav Havel, for it was because of him that she and I first formed a connection.This was in 1992, after she was awarded the Nobel Prize for Peace, for which Havel had nominated her.I was approached by her late husband, Michael Aris, who asked if I could arrange for Havel to draft a short introduction to a volume of his wife’s writings.Although the request did not have much to do with his day job as President of Czechoslovakia, Havel was pleased to do it – because of how much he admired her, and because of the sense of obligation he felt toward men and women on every continent who still struggled for recognition of their most basic rights.This obligation, in my mind, is central to our discussion today about Havel’s legacy and the future of democracy.For even though he was very much a product of his country’s culture and history, what distinguished Havel was that he thought, spoke, and acted on behalf of principles that will always matter everywhere.To further illustrate what I mean, let me share another story.Not long after he became president, Havel traveled to Washington where he was scheduled to deliver an address to a joint session of Congress.I had the honor of helping him prepare.Because he had little experience in public speaking and had developed the habit in prison of avoiding eye contact, we brought in an expert to coach him on his delivery.Even though we had the speech translated to English, Havel insisted on delivering it in Czech. And while Michael Žantovský provided an animated English interpretation, Havel’s delivery was still poor.It did not matter one bit.Havel may not have been the smoothest of orators, but he was authentic – and also surprising.The world had expected him to denounce the Soviet leaders who had long oppressed his country; instead, he requested help for the Russian people in making their own transition to democracy.Instead of treating the Cold War’s end as a climactic victory; he emphasized the challenge that lay ahead – to create a world shaped by moral responsibility.Instead of focusing on ideology or politics, he stressed the obligations we each have to one another.Narrow interests of all kinds, insisted Havel, must give way to universal principles and concerns.It was a very idealistic speech, not the sort that most national leaders would give.But we know that Havel’s conception of leadership differed from that of most presidents and prime ministers.He had no interest in the kind of political rhetoric that divides people into one camp or another, or that exploits anger, resentment and fear.He worried that the defeat of Communism would prompt democratic peoples to conclude that their work was done and that, in the future, they could always expect to enjoy the upper hand in battling evil; but complacency was not in Havel’s dictionary.He celebrated his country at its best, but without falling into the trap of chauvinism.He argued to domestic and foreign audiences alike that, despite all the external foes we might face, our most dangerous enemy is our propensity toward selfishness and indifference to others.The logical corollary to this argument was his relentless advocacy on behalf of civil and political rights for all people.Whether the specific challenge was posed by apartheid, as in South Africa; or ethnic cleansing, as in the Balkans; or genocide, as in Rwanda and Sudan; or political repression in Cuba or China, Havel never hesitated to raise his voice on behalf of justice.This was true in the days of Charter 77 and the Velvet Revolution, it was true when he served as President, and it was true in the final weeks and months of his life.I remember vividly the conversations I had with him during that last year.  He was encouraged by Arab democracy movements and by the promising developments in Burma.In October 2011, he signed the Budapest Appeal, which reminded every country in Europe of its obligations to observe democratic norms.His last public statements were in support of prisoners of conscience in Belarus and of opposition protests in Moscow where, on the day of his funeral, 80,000 demonstrators observed a moment of silence to mark his passing.It is natural to wonder what Havel would have made of the events that have transpired in the five years since his passing. I know I often do.Clearly, he would have been frustrated by the world’s inability to stop the slaughter in Syria, and he would have been deeply troubled by the response of his own country and many of its neighbors in Europe to the refugee crisis.I believe he would have been concerned about the rise of populism globally, while worrying about how European unity has been undermined by forces both external and internal. And I am sure he would have been just as perplexed as all of us by Donald Trump.So he would have felt frustrations, to be sure, but I am equally certain that Vaclav Havel would not have allowed those frustrations to harden into despair. And neither can we.Yet as we gather here to discuss the future of democracy, there is no question that it is undergoing a new and rigorous round of tests.The combination of new technology and social media has empowered citizens everywhere to voice their views with a breadth, immediacy, and volume never before possible.This matters because of the widely held perception that democratically-elected leaders are failing to create jobs, reduce debt, and end conflict.For their part, presidents and prime ministers often find that their responsibilities exceed their power, and that they are unable to satisfy their constituents’ hunger for instant solutions.Along the way, democracy’s enemies have become increasingly bold and outspoken.They are turning to sophisticated new tools to undermine confidence in our institutions – including hacking, disinformation campaigns, and online trolling.We are in the middle of an information war, and democracy’s friends are both unarmed and ill-prepared.That’s in part because, in the twenty-five years since the end of the Cold War, we grew too complacent and too confident that the democratic tide would rise simply because history was on our side.We underestimated the tenacity of our opponents, and we did not pay enough attention to the admonitions of Vaclav Havel, who urged us in that speech to Congress to treat the Cold War’s end not as the conclusion of a bitter struggle but as the beginning of a new and even greater challenge.If Vaclav Havel were here today, I am sure he would say that it is not too late for us to regain the upper hand.Because throughout his life, he bore witness to the rationalizations we often employ to avoid meeting our responsibilities, whether civic or moral.Like Nelson Mandela and Aung Sang Suu Kyi, he forgave his jailers and was charitable toward those who fell short in the test of courage.But he also assured us over and over again that we could do better.Whether he was reminding his own countrymen of their best traditions, or rousing the slumbering conscience of the world, he never wavered in his commitment to personal liberty, respect for human rights, and the defense of liberal democracy.The best way for us to honor his legacy would be to renew our own commitment to these principles, and to demand even more of ourselves in defending them around the world.A few months before his death, many of us gathered in Prague to celebrate Havel’s 75th birthday.My gift to him was a compass that had been used by American soldiers in World War I, the conflict that led to Czechoslovakia’s founding.In my note, I cited the irony of giving a compass to someone who had served as the North Star for a generation.But five years after his death, Havel’s star still shines bright.  And his legacy still lights the way for all of freedom’s friends.That is why it is so appropriate that as we reflect on his life today, we are also set to discuss how to carry on the work that Havel so nobly advanced.So let me thank the National Endowment for Democracy once again for bringing us together for this discussion, and for supporting so many of the causes that Vaclav Havel held dear.Thank you very much.Read full testimony from Senate Subcommittee on Western Hemisphere, Democracy,...Despite the abolition of untouchability and the enactment...Burundian human rights defender Faustin Ndikumana will...20 years ago, delegates from 80+ counties founded the...NED President Carl Gershman presents the Disturbing the Peace Award to a Courageous...
#The Internet: A Powerful Tool for Freedom or Control?#October 3, 2016#In an interview with Efecto Naim, NED Vice President for Studies and Analysis Christopher Walker discusses how governments around the world are using the Internet as a means of extending authoritarian controls over freedom of expression.(Video report in Spanish)As we celebrated World Press Freedom Day, the Center for International Media...A half-day international conference celebrating the...Writing for Foreign Affairs, Christopher Walker, Shanthi...Shanthi Kalathil testified in front of the Congressional-Executive...By Christopher Walker and Robert Orttung, as it appeared...Forum director Shanthi Kalathil reviews Nadege Rolland's "China's Eurasian Century?...
#NED Launches Third Cohort of Penn Kemble Forum#September 26, 2016#On September 21, 2016, the Endowment welcomed its third cohort of Penn Kemble Forum on Democracy Fellows with a panel discussion between Francis Fukuyama and Larry Diamond. The conversation was moderated by 2015-16 Penn Kemble alumna Ruth Smith. The Penn Kemble Forum is a NED initiative that promotes bipartisan conversation between young foreign policy leaders on a range of issues, and is an opportunity to share ideas across sectors and explore the role of democracy and human rights within the context of a broad range of policy questions. The Forum convenes monthly for off-the-record dinner conversations led by foreign policy experts, government officials (past and present), and democracy practitioners. In 2015-16, Penn Kemble Fellows met with Ambassador Melanne Verveer, Azar Nafisi (Reading Lolita in Tehran), and many others. Click here for a complete list of this year’s Fellows“There is a crying need to develop a new generation of young people in this country and around the world who, like Penn Kemble, are animated by democratic ideas and values,” said NED President Carl Gershman in his remarks to the group. The Forum is named for Penn Kemble, one of the democracy movement’s most committed activists and strategists. His political evolution took him from early involvement in the young socialist and civil rights movements, through engagement with the U.S. labor movement in combating Communism, especially within Central America, to more recent initiatives, including the Transatlantic Democracy Network and Civitas, an international program to promote civic education. He served as deputy and acting director of the United States Information Agency in the Clinton administration, and Secretary of State Albright appointed him U.S. representative to the Community of Democracies. In 2002, Secretary of State Powell appointed him to lead a group to investigate slavery and human trafficking in Sudan. He passed away in October 2005.Click here for more information on the Penn Kemble ForumVisit the NED Facebook page for photos from this eventI want to begin by welcoming the third class of Penn Kemble Fellows.  It’s the largest group of fellows we’ve ever had – 32 – and I want to congratulate all of you on being selected.  The competition was very stiff, which is a terrific sign of how popular this program has become.  I have great confidence that it’s going to be an exciting experience for you, and that you’re going to learn a lot about the state of democracy in the world today and its prospect for the future.I also want to welcome my old friend Mal Caravatti, who is Penn’s widow, and Genie Kemble, Penn’s sister who led the Free Trade Union Institute, NED’s labor core grantee, when the NED was founded more than three decades ago.I want to say a few words about Penn Kemble, who was a singular American democracy activist for many decades, from the 1960s until his death a decade ago.He was associated with many organizations during those years: Social Democrats, USA, which was the successor organization of the Socialist Party; the Coalition for a Democratic Majority that tried to reclaim the Democratic Party for centrist and pro-labor Democrats after the McGovern defeat in 1972; and Freedom House, the pre-eminent U.S. organization defending political freedom in the world that was created in 1941 to oppose isolationism in this country and to urge U.S. support for the struggle to defeat Nazi Germany and its fascist allies.  He served as Deputy Director of the U.S. Information Agency during the Clinton Administration, when he took the lead in promoting civic education around the world.He was called a “muscular” or a “Scoop Jackson” Democrat, meaning that he was a “large-D” Democrat who was a strong anti-Communist.  The New York Sun called him a “Cold War Hero.”As a political or democracy activist, he was animated by ideas and causes, even has he appreciated the central importance of free elections and democratic governance.He believed in carrying out the struggle to defend democracy primarily in the arenas of culture, values, and ideas.He was a kind of paradoxical figure – a social democrat, and therefore, a person on the left, who did battle against what, for want of a better term, we might call “left liberalism.”  He was essentially a person of the political center.As a social democrat, he admired the thought of the philosopher Sidney Hook, who once said that democracy is not merely a political concept but a moral one.  It is democracy as a way of life.Penn said that his passion for democracy was awakened by a trip he made to Italy as a high school junior, when he encountered anti-Americanism for the first time.That passion expressed itself in his passionate anti-communism, which was the major issue in American foreign policy until the collapse of communism in Central Europe in 1989 and the disintegration of the Soviet Union in 1991. It also expressed itself in his support for the rights and well-being of ordinary Americans and in his relationship with the American labor movement; and in his defense of America and the liberal democratic principles it embodies.There is today a greater need than ever for people with this kind of democratic conviction.The NED has called attention to what we have called the authoritarian resurgence, by which we mean the growing and dangerous assertion of both hard and soft power by autocratic countries like Russia and China.  There is the problem of democratic backsliding in some countries of Central Europe and in places like Thailand, Turkey, and the Philippines.Not least worrying is the crisis of liberal democracy in the established democracies on the West, including here in the US. NED’s Journal of Democracy has just published an article entitled “The Danger of Deconsolidation,” by Roberto Stefan Foa and Yascha Mounk, which documents the declining support for democratic values among young Americans.There is a crying need to develop a new generation of young people in this country and around the world who, like Penn Kemble, are animated by democratic ideas and values. That’s the purpose of the Penn Kemble Youth Forum, and it’s why I think it’s so urgently important today.
#September 15, 2016: International Day of Democracy#September 13, 2016#In honor of International Day of Democracy, we’re sharing some of the inspiring work taking place around the world, supported by NED. Get to know some of our grantees and fellows. In March 2015 in New Delhi, the conference “Strengthening Democracy in Asia: Inclusion, Participation, and Rights” brought together hundreds of civil society organizations, media practitioners, politicians, and other champions of democracy from 15 nations. Featuring His Holiness the Dalai Lama and fellow Nobel Peace Prize winner Kailash Satyarthi, the conference highlighted challenges faced by activists, best practices in addressing them, and ideas for promoting democratic change within society.Read more on Strengthening Democracy in Asia.TWEET / SHARE ON FACEBOOK For over 20 years, NED has funded dozens of civil society organizations that challenged military dictatorship and helped achieve Nigeria’s democratic restoration. But as Nigeria headed to the polls in March 2015, Nigerians and the international community alike were deeply concerned about the potential for a disputed and violent election. Political parties deployed inflammatory language and aggressive tactics to mobilize their supporters and intimidate their competitors. But in 2015, civil society activists and their partners guided the first peaceful and democratic alternation of power between parties in Nigeria’s history.Read more on Nigeria’s 2015 Elections.TWEET / SHARE ON FACEBOOK As Jordan’s most consistent parliamentary watchdog, NED grantee CMN was a pioneer and remains a leader in facilitating interaction between MPs and their constituents on a regular basis. This makes it a unique contributor to political life in Jordan.Learn more about this initiative.TWEET / SHARE ON FACEBOOKFor years, the quality of healthcare in Ukraine has...Enlightened post Cold War Initiative for Peace Building...For over 20 years, NED has funded dozens of civil society...
#Book Launch: “Authoritarianism Goes Global” Events in Europe#August 4, 2016#Authoritarianism Goes Global gained much attention in Europe as co-editors Marc F. Plattner and Christopher Walker traveled to five cities in Europe in May and June 2016 to present the book’s findings at a series of public panels and roundtable discussions hosted by the following organizations.Also participating in these conversations were several of the edited volume’s contributing authors, including Anne Applebaum, Alexander Cooley, and Lilia Shevtsova. Photos from the book tour appear below.
#Journal of Democracy July 2016 Issue: The Danger of Deconsolidation#July 18, 2016#The Dangers of Deconsolidation“Citizens in a number of supposedly consolidated democracies in North America and Western Europe” are now “more cynical about the value of democracy as a political system . . . and more willing to express support for authoritarian alternatives,” warn Roberto Stefan Foa and Yascha Mounk in “The Democratic Disconnect.” Ronald Inglehart is less gloomy about democracy’s future prospects, however, as he explains in “The Danger of Deconsolidation: How Much Should We Worry?“25 Years After the USSRA quarter-century after the Soviet breakup, democracy has failed to make progress in most post-Soviet states. Henry Hale details why this seemingly promising gain for freedom produced such disappointing results in “25 Years After the USSR: What’s Gone Wrong?”.Xi Jinping’s Maoist RevivalFar from being a reformer, President Xi Jinping has launched the most sweeping ideological campaign in China since Mao. As Suisheng Zhao describes in “Xi Jinping’s Maoist Revival,” Xi is mixing nationalism, Leninism, and Maoism in ways he hopes will cement continued Communist Party rule. The July issue also features: For the complete Table of Contents, please visit www.journalofdemocracy.org. Washington, DC — The pro-democracy demonstrations in Hong Kong are...This project gives a rare glimpse into a situation...The Embassy of Canada and The National Endowment for...OCT 15, 2015Worth Reading: Journal of Democracy October..."Why Democracy in Hong Kong Matters"﻿ The National Endowment...
#NED Mourns the Death of Former Chairman John Brademas#July 12, 2016# FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEDATE:  July 12, 2016CONTACT:  Jane Riley Jacobsen, jane@ned.org or (202) 378-9700               WASHINGTON, DC – It was with great sadness that the Board of Directors and staff of the National Endowment for Democracy (NED) learned of the passing of its former chairman, The Honorable John Brademas, who died July 11, 2016 in New York City at the age of 89.Brademas, an 11-term Democratic congressman from South Bend, Indiana, who also served as president of New York University, served as NED chairman from 1993-2001.“John Brademas was a great public servant and a fervent friend of democracy in the United States and throughout the world,” said NED President Carl Gershman.  “His chairmanship of the NED board during the Clinton Administration helped solidify the bipartisan consensus in the Congress favoring democracy assistance, and his strong leadership rallied support for NED’s mission and work at a time of growing isolationism in the aftermath of the Cold War.  John was a beloved man, and he will be long remembered and sorely missed.”The Endowment paid tribute to Brademas’ service to NED and to the cause of democracy with the presentation of the NED’s Democracy Service Medal in January, 2001.# # #  
#APSA-CD Newsletter: Democratization and Civil Conflict#July 11, 2016#“The history that has come down to us in writing is very much a history of conflict over political power. The most well-attested of these conflicts have been ‘international’, that is, conflicts of external conquest and domination. But domestic conflicts over political power have also been ubiquitous, from the multiple democratic revolutions and aristocratic reactions in ancient Greek city-states to coups, regime breakdowns, and civil wars in modern territorial states,” write guest editors Svend Erik Skaaning and Jorgen Moller in the APSA-CD July 2016 newsletter on “Democratization and Civil Conflict.”APSA-CD Newsletter is produced three times per year and features 3-5 original articles on democratization, as well as bibliographic information on new research from leading political scientists and academic journals.The International Forum for Democratic Studies serves as the Secretariat for the APSA-Comparative Democratization section, and each issue of APSA-CD is jointly produced by the Forum and the Varieties of Democracy Institute (V-Dem) at the University of Gothenburg."Media is rapidly changing form and function, forcing...Democratization scholars analyze historical cases of...The June edition features seven articles written by...
#NED Hosts His Holiness the Dalai Lama#June 29, 2016#On June 16, 2016, the National Endowment for Democracy hosted His Holiness the Dalai Lama for a public conversation with four dynamic young democracy activists. The afternoon included remarks from House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi, Senator Dianne Feinstein, NED Board member Congressman Peter Roskam, and noted activist and actor Richard Gere.His Holiness the Dalai Lama is well-known as the spiritual leader of the Tibetan people. He is less well known as a dedicated advocate for the principles of democracy and for the political reforms he introduced when he gave up his role as political leader of the Tibetan people, devolving political power to the Central Tibetan Administration (CTA), the elected government in exile. The Dalai Lama has often said that opposing totalitarianism is not enough, and that it is also necessary to offer a democratic alternative.Following the presentation, His Holiness the Dalai Lama responded to questions from four dynamic young democracy activists: Azeri journalist Arzu Geybullayeva, Cuban activist Rosa Maria Payá, Sudanese activist Azaz Elshami, and Jordanian activist Rami Soud. The discussion, which was moderated by Brian Joseph, NED Senior Director for Asia and Global Programs, focused on the themes of maintaining hope and tolerance in the face of repression and hate, and fostering youth leadership under difficult conditions.His Holiness answered the questions posed by the youth activists with his characteristic wisdom and wit. Payá – whose father, a prominent Cuban activist, was killed in 2012 – asked about finding the balance between forgiveness and justice. His Holiness was quick to clarify that “forgiveness does not mean you accept others’ wrongdoing,” and that sometimes we need to act, “but without anger.”NED also took the opportunity to honor the continuing struggle of the Tibetan people by making a posthumous award of the Democracy Service Medal to the late Tibetan Buddhist Monk Tenzin Delek Rinpoche, a prominent Tibetan political prisoner who died under questionable circumstances last year in a Chinese prison.According to Human Rights Watch, Tenzin Delek’s imprisonment in 2002 was the culmination of a decade-long effort by Chinese authorities to curb his efforts to foster Tibetan Buddhism. Tenzin Delek was an inspiration for Tibetans struggling to retain their cultural identity in the face of China’s harsh policies. The Medal was accepted on his behalf by his cousin, Geshe Jamyang Nyima. NED president Gershman described Tenzin Delek as a “moral force” and a “living symbol of Tibetans’ indomitable spirit and their deeply rooted, invincible faith and identity.”Following Medal presentation, NED Chairman Martin Frost presented a plaque that featured the preamble to the US Constitution side by side with an excerpt from the CTA Constitution. This symbol of democratic solidarity with the Tibetan people was received by Sikyong Lobsang Sangay, the democratically elected leader of the CTA.  The CTA assumed full responsibility for the Tibetan government in exile after the Dalai Lama devolved his political authority in 2011. 
#Geshe la and Tenzin Palkyi’s Interview with VOA Tibetan#June 17, 2016#Read remarks by Carl Gershman during Democracy Serivce Medal presentation at...His Holiness the Dalai Lama will discuss the subject...It is with great sadness that the National Endowment...Remarks by Dr. Judy Shelton, Vice Chairman of NED.
#Geshe la Accepts Democracy Service Medal on Behalf of Tenzin Delek#June 15, 2016#Tashi Delek. I would like to extend my heartfelt greetings to our beloved leader, His Holiness the Dalai Lama, our Prime Minister, Sikyong Dr. Lobsang Sangay, members of the United States Congress, the staff and board of the National Endowment for Democracy, and all of you in the audience.Tenzin Delek Rinpoche was a man who was fiercely loyal to His Holiness the Dalai Lama and devoutly followed His Holiness’s principles of nonviolent action and public service. For this reason, he was arrested by Chinese authorities on April 7th, 2002 and sentenced to death under false charges. Thousands of Tibetans, including his family, appealed for his release as did many governments, including the United States, and activists around the world. His death sentence was commuted to life imprisonment. After serving 13 years of his sentence, Rinpoche died in prison last July at age 65.During the 13 years that Rinpoche spent in prison, his family was allowed to visit him only six times. He said to them: “The reason I am in prison is because of my loyalty to His Holiness the Dalai Lama in word and deed, and because of my love for Tibet. China’s accusation against me is entirely false, and I am completely innocent.” When I first heard of Rinpoche’s death, I was paralyzed with shock and grief. I felt helpless and hopeless. At that moment, Tibetans in Tibet, with great courage, stressed the importance of protesting the Chinese government and publicizing the injustice against Rinpoche. They revived my soul and strengthened my resolve to press on, and gave me the courage to continue Rinpoche’s great vision for Tibet and his work for the Tibetan people. They gave me the courage to seek justice and to vindicate the truth. I request all those who have supported him to continue your support. As we approach the one-year anniversary of Rinpoche’s death, I thank the National Endowment for Democracy for recognizing his contributions and for honoring him with the Democracy Service Medal. On behalf of his family and his followers, I express my deepest gratitude. This award is not only a recognition of Rinpoche alone, but a tribute to all those Tibetans who languish in Chinese prisons for seeking their freedom and human rights. What happened to Rinpoche highlights the abysmal situation of repression in Tibet, the lack of legal recourse, and the absence of human rights and religious freedom. Even the simplest action in the global arena makes a big difference to Tibetans, and I urge you to continue supporting our freedom struggle, the cause for which more than 150 Tibetans have self-immolated. In the last 13 years, in my effort to gather information on Rinpoche, I have received help from many Tibetans who took great risks to their own lives in order to collect and send information out of Tibet. Likewise, to Chinese writer, Wang Lixiong, and Tibetan poet, Tsering Woeser, and NED president, Carl Gershman, I owe my deepest thanks. I am especially grateful to the many government and nongovernmental organizations in exile who did everything they could to campaign for Rinpoche’s life and for his release. Tenzin Delek Rinpoche’s death was untimely and tragic, but his spirit lives on. We must continue our nonviolent struggle to end political repression in Tibet and never give up hope. We must continue to stand on the side of truth, justice, and equality. Thank you.མང་གཙོའི་ཐེབས་རྩ་ཁང་གི་གཟེངས་རྟགས་མཛད་སྒོའི་གཏམ་བཤད།ལྷ་དང་བཅས་པའི་འགྲོ་བ་ཡོངས་ཀྱི་སྐྱབས་གནས་འཛམ་གླིང་ཞི་བདེའི་དེད་དཔོན་༧གོང་ས༧སྐྱབས་མགོན་ཆེན་པོ་ལ་སྒོ་གསུམ་གུས་ཕྱག་སྔོན་དུ་སྟངས་ནས་དེ་རིང་མང་གཙོའི་ཐེབས་རྩ་ཁང་གི་གཟེངས་རྟགས་མཛད་སྒོ་ལ་ཕེབས་པའི་སྐུ་མགྲོན་གྱི་གཙོ་བོར་བོད་ཀྱི་བླ་ན་མེད་པའི་དབུ་འཁྲིད་༸གོང་ས་༸སྐྱབས་མགོན་ཆེན་པོ་མཆོག་གིས་གཙོས་པའི་དཔལ་ལྡན་སྲིད་སྐྱོང་མཆོག་ཨ་རིའི་གྲོས་ཚོགས་ཀྱི་འཐུས་མི་རྣམ་པ་དང་། མང་གཙོ་ཐེབས་རྩ་ཁང་གི་འགན་འཛིན་གྱིས་གཙོས་ཚོགས་བཅར་བ་ཡོངས་ལ་ གུས་པས་འཚམས་འདྲི་བཀྲིས་བདེ་ལེགས་ཞུ་རྒྱུ་ཡིན།སྤྲུལ་སྐུ་བསྟན་འཛིན་བདེ་ལེགས་རིན་པོ་ཆེ་མཆོག་གིས་རྒྱུན་དུ་༸གོང་ས་༸སྐྱབས་མགོན་ཆེན་པོ་མཆོག་གི་དགོངས་གཞི་ལྟར། འཚེ་མེད་ཞི་བདེ་དང་ལྷག་བསམ་རྣམ་དག་གིས་མི་མང་ལ་སྲི་ཞུ་བསྒྲུབས་པར་ བརྟེན། ཕྱི་ལོ་ ༢༠༠༢ ཟླ་ ༤ ཚེས་ ༧ ཉིན་ཉག་ཆུ་རྫོང་ཐོག་ཏུ། རྒྱ་གཞུང་གིས་མ་ཉེས་ཁག་ གཡོགས་ཀྱིས་འཛིན་བཟུང་བཙོན་འཇུག་བྱས། སྐབས་དེར་ཁོང་གི་གཅུང་མོ་གསུམ་གྱི་གཙོས་རྗེས་ འཇུག་པ་བོད་མི་ཁྲི་ཚོ་མང་པོས་རེ་སྐུལ་དང་ཞུ་གཏུགས་སྣ་ཚོགས་བྱས་ཀྱང་། རྒྱ་གཞུང་གིས་ཁྲིམས་ ལུགས་དང་མི་མཐུན་པའི་ཐོག་ནས། ཁོང་ལ་ལོ་གཉིས་དུས་འགྱངས་ཀྱི་སྲོག་ཁྲིམས་བཅད་པ་དང་། རྗེས་སུ་ཨ་རིའི་སྲིད་གཞུང་གིས་གཙོས་རྒྱལ་སྤྱིའི་སྲིད་གཞུང་ཁག་དང་། གཞུང་འབྲེལ་མ་ཡིན་པའི་ ཚོགས་པ་སོགས་ཀྱི་གནོན་ཤུགས་ལ་བརྟེན་ནས་སྲོག་ཁྲིམས་དེ་ཚེ་བཙོན་ལ་བསྒྱུར་ཐུབ་ཡོད། ལོ་ངོ་བཅུ་གསུམ་རྗེས་ལོ་སྔོན་མ་ཕྱི་༧པའི་ཚེས་༡༢ཉིན་དགུང་ལོ་༦༥ཐོག་དགོངས་པ་རྫོགས་པ་རེད།རིན་པོ་ཆེ་མི་ལོ་ ༡༣ ལྷག་གི་རིང་བཙོན་ཁང་དུ་བཞུགས་པའི་སྐབས། ནང་མི་ཉེ་འབྲེལ་ཚོ་ཐེངས་ ༦ རིང་ཐུག་འཕྲད་བྱས་ཐུབ་ཡོད་ཅིང། སྐབས་དེར་རིན་པོ་ཆེ་མཆོག་གིས་ཞལ་འཆེམས་ལྟ་བུ་ གསུང་དོན་གཙོ་བོ་ནི། “ང་བཙོན་ཁང་དུ་ཡོང་དགོས་དོན་ནི་ངས་༸རྒྱལ་བ་རིན་པོ་ཆེའི་ ཅི་གསུངས་བཀའ་བསྒྲུབས་ཞུས་པ་དང་། བོད་ལ་ཤ་ཞེན་བྱས་པའི་དབང་གིས་རེད་མ་གཏོགས། རྒྱ་ནག་གཞུང་གིས་ང་ལ་ནག་ཉེས་འགེལ་བ་དེ་མ་ཉེས་ཁག་གཡོགས་ཡིན་པ་ལས་ང་ལ་ནག་ཉེས་གང་ཡང་མེད” ཅེས་གསུངས་ཡོད།དང་ཐོག་ཁོ་བོས་རིན་པོ་ཆེ་བཙོན་དུ་དགོངས་པ་རྫོགས་པའི་གནས་ཚུལ་ཐོས་པ་དང་། བསམ་ཡུལ་ ལས་འདས་ནས་ཅི་བྱ་བཏོལ་མེད་ཀྱི་དྲན་མེད་དུ་གནས་པའི་སྐབས། བོད་ནང་གི་བོད་མི་ ཚོས་སེམས་ཤུགས་ཆེན་པོའི་ཐོག་ནས། རྒྱ་གཞུང་ལ་ངོ་རྒོལ་དང་ཕྱི་ཕྱོགས་སུ་དྲིལ་བསྒྲགས་བྱེད་ དགོས་པའི་སྐུལ་མ་བྱས་པ་ལ་བརྟེན་ནས། ངའི་སེམས་སུ་སླར་ཡར་གསོན་ཤུགས་རྒྱས་ཏེ་རིན་པོ་ཆེ་ ཁོང་དགོངས་པ་རྫོགས་ཟིན་རུང། ཁོང་གི་རླབས་ཆེན་གྱི་ཕྱག་ལས་དང་ཐུགས་དགོངས་དེ་དག་ མུ་མཐུད་མཇུག་སྐྱོང་གིས་འགྲུབ་ཐབས་བྱ་རྒྱུའི་ཆོད་སེམས་དང། མུ་མཐུད་ནས་བདེན་པ་ལ་རྒྱལ་ཁ་ ཐོབ་པའི་ཆེད་དུ་འབད་བརྩོན་ཞུ་རྒྱུའི་དམ་བཅའ་བཞག་ཡོད་པས། ཁོང་ལ་རྒྱབ་སྐྱོར་གནང་ དང་གནང་བཞིན་པ་ཚོས་སྔར་བཞིན་རྒྱབ་སྐྱོར་ཡོང་བའི་འབོད་སྐུལ་ཞུ་རྒྱུ་ཡིན།སྤྲུལ་སྐུ་བསྟན་འཛིན་བདེ་ལེགས་རིན་པོ་ཆེ་མཆོག་དགོངས་པ་རྫོགས་ནས་ལོ་གཅིག་འཁོར་བའི་ཉེ་བའི་དུས་འདིར། རིན་པོ་ཆེའི་མཛད་རྗེས་ཁག་ལ་ངོས་འཛིན་གནང་བའི་ཐོག་ནས། ཨ་རིའི་མང་གཙོའི་ ཐེབས་རྩ་ཁང་གིས་མང་གཙོའི་ཞབས་ཞུའི་གཟེངས་རྟགས་གནང་བ་འདི། གུས་པས་རིན་པོ་ཆེའི་ འབྲེལ་ཡོད་ནང་མི་དང་ཁོང་གི་རྗེས་འཇུག་བ་ཡོངས་ཀྱི་ཚབ་ཞུས་ནས་སྙིང་ཐག་པ་ནས་བཀའ་དྲིན་ཆེ་ཞུ་གི་ཡོད། དེ་བཞིན་དེ་རིང་གི་གཟེངས་རྟགས་འདི་རིན་པོ་ཆེ་གཅིག་པུ་ཙམ་མིན་པ། རིན་པོ་ཆེ་དང་འདྲ་བ་རྒྱ་གཞུང་གི་བཙོན་འོག་ཏུ་ཡོད་པའི་བོད་མི་ཡོངས་ལ་ཐོབ་པའི་ངོས་འཛིན་ཞུ་རྒྱུ་ཡིན།རིན་པོ་ཆེའི་གནས་སྟངས་འདིས་བོད་སྤྱི་ཡོངས་ཀྱི་གནས་ཚུལ་དམ་དྲག་ཡོད་པ་མཚོན་ཐུབ་པ་མ་ཟད། བོད་ལ་ཁྲིམས་ལུགས་འདྲ་མཉམ་མེད་པ། འགྲོ་བ་མིའི་ཐོབ་ཐང་མེད་པ། ཆོས་དད་རང་དབང་མེད་སོགས་མཚོན་ཐུབ། བོད་ནང་ཉིན་རེ་བཞིན་ཛ་དྲགས་ཆེ་རུ་འགྲོ་བའི་ བཞིན་པའི་སྐབས་འདིར་བོད་མིའི་རང་དབང་ཐོབ་རྩོད་ལ་རྒྱབ་སྐྱོར་བ་རྣམས་ནས་རྒྱབ་སྐྱོར་ཡོད་མེད་གནམ་ས་ལྟ་བུའི་ཁྱད་པར་བཟོ་ཡི་འདུག་པས་བོད་མིའི་རང་དབང་དང་བོད་ཀྱི་བདེན་དོན་ཆེད་རང་ལུས་མེ་མཆོད་ཕུལ་མཁན་བརྒྱ་དང་ལྔ་ཅུ་མ་ཟིན་ཙམ་གྱིས་རེ་འདོད་དང་དམིགས་ཡུལ་འགྲུབ་ཆེད་རྒྱབ་སྐྱོར་མུ་མཐུད་དགོས་པའི་རེ་སྐུལ་ཞུ་རྒྱུ་ཡིན།འདས་པའི་མི་ལོ་ ༡༣ ལྷག་གི་རིང་གུས་པས་གནས་ཚུལ་མཁོ་སྒྲུབ་སྐབས་རང་སྲོག་ལ་འཛེམས་མེད་ ཀྱིས་རིན་པོ་ཆེའི་གནས་ཚུལ་མཁོ་སྤྲོད་གནང་མཁན་བོད་བཞུགས་བོད་མི་ཚོ་དང། རྒྱ་ནག་ཏུ་གནས་སྡོད་རྩོམ་པ་པོ་ཝ་ལི་ཞུན་དང་ཚེ་རིང་འོད་ཟེར་གཙོས་པའི་རིན་པོ་ཆེའི་གནད་དོན་ལ་ལྷག་བསམ་རྣམ་དག་གིས་རྒྱབ་སྐྱོར་བྱེད་མཁན་དང་། མང་གཙོའི་ཐེབས་རྩ་ཁང་གི་འགན་འཛིན་ ཀལ་དགེ་ཤི་མིན་(Carl Gershman)རྒྱབ་སྐྱོར་དང་རོགས་རམས་ཤུགས་ཆེན་གནང་སོང་བས་ ཐུགས་རྗེ་ཆེ་ཞུ། ཕྱི་ཕྱོགས་སུ་ཡོད་པའི་གཞུང་འབྲེལ་དང་གཞུང་འབྲེལ་མ་ཡིན་པའི་ རྒྱབ་སྐྱོར་བ་འབྲེལ་ཡོད་ཚང་མ་ལ་སྙིང་ཁུང་རུས་པའི་གཏིང་ནས་བཀའ་དྲིན་ཆེ་ཞུ་རྒྱུ་ཡིན།རིན་པོ་ཆེ་གློ་བུ་དགོངས་པ་རྫོགས་པ་དེ་ཧ་ཅང་གི་བློ་ཕམ་རང་བཞིན་ཞིག་རེད། ཡིན་ཡང་ཁོང་གི་ ཐུགས་དགོངས་དེ་མུ་འཐུད་གནས་ཡོད། བོད་ཀྱི་ཆབ་སྲིད་ཀྱི་གནས་སྟངས་མ་སེར་གྱི་བར་ ང་ཚོ་ཞི་བའི་ཐབས་རྩོད་མུ་འཐུད་ནས་གནས་དགོས་ལ་ང་ཚོ་སེམས་ཤུགས་ནམ་ཡང་ཆགས་རྒྱུ་མེད། ང་ཚོ་དྲང་བདེན་དང་འདྲ་མཉམ་ཕྱོགས་སུ་མུ་འཐུད་སྐྱོད་དགོས། ཐུགས་རྗེ་ཆེ །We were delighted to welcome His Holiness to NED where he engaged in conversation...The National Endowment for Democracy (NED) presented...Read Carl Gershman's remarks at “Hope and Democracy”...Read the remarks made by Carl Gershman on the occasion...Czech and Slovak representatives joined members of...Geshe la and Tenzin Palkyi sit down with VOA Tibetan (spoken in Tibetan language).
#Tibet: Exiles’ Journey#June 14, 2016#Here is a short piece that Lobsang Sangay (then a student at Harvard, now the elected premier of the Tibetan government-in-exile) wrote for the Journal of Democracy back in the July 2003 issue on the Tibetan democratic journey.Read “Tibet: Exiles’ Journey.”You can also read the article by visiting Project Muse. Prominent political scientists William A. Galston and Yascha Mounk will discuss...Alexander Cooley, Steven Heydemann, Ronald Deibert,...The National Endowment for Democracy will honor defenders...The July 2018 issue features an eight-article cluster...Dr. Ghia Nodia of the Ilia Chavchavadze State University...sept 22, 2014Transitions Debate: Waves vs. ClustersForum NewsJournal of...
#NED to host His Holiness the Dalai Lama#June 1, 2016#For Immediate Release DATE: June 1, 2016 CONTACT:  Jane Riley Jacobsen, jane@ned.org, 202-378-9700WASHINGTON, D.C. – His Holiness the Dalai Lama will discuss the subject of Democracy and Hope with a group of young activists from Cuba, Sudan, Azerbaijan and Jordan at an event at the National Endowment for Democracy (NED) on Wednesday, June 15, 2016 from 1:00 – 3:00 p.m.  “We are delighted to welcome His Holiness to NED to engage with dynamic young activists who believe deeply in the principles of democracy and human rights and are working in difficult environments to advance those rights and principles,” said NED president Carl Gershman.The featured activists are:Read activists’ full bios.The Dalai Lama is well known as the spiritual leader of the Tibetan people. He is less well known as a dedicated advocate for the principles of democracy and for the political reforms he introduced when he gave up his role as political leader of the Tibetan people, devolving political power to the Central Tibetan Administration (CTA), the elected government in exile. The Dalai Lama has often said that opposing totalitarianism is not enough, and that it is also necessary to offer a democratic alternative. NED will make a special presentation to representatives of the CTA at the June 15 event in recognition of their democratic accomplishments.NED will also use this occasion to honor the courageous work of the late Tibetan Buddhist Monk Tenzin Delek Rinpoche with the presentation of NED’s Democracy Service Medal.  Tenzin Delek was a prominent political prisoner who died in a Sichuan prison in 2015. Punished for his efforts to foster Tibetan Buddhism, Tenzin Delek was an inspiration for Tibetans struggling to retain their cultural identity in the face of China’s harsh policies. This event is by invitation only, and is open to the media.  Credentialed journalists must register in advance by email: press@ned.org.  A livestream of the event will be available on the NED website at www.ned.org/dalailama.Remarks by Dr. Judy Shelton, Vice Chairman of NED. Geshe la and Tenzin Palkyi sit down with VOA Tibetan...The International Forum for Democratic Studies and...On Wednesday June 24, the National Endowment for Democracy...National Endowment for Democracy President Carl Gershman...Read Carl Gershman's remarks at “Hope and Democracy” Event with the Dalai...
#New and Serious Challenges to Democracy Emerge as Authoritarianism Goes Global#April 13, 2016#For Immediate Release April 13, 2016WASHINGTON, DC— Over the past decade, leading illiberal powers have become emboldened and gained greater influence within the global arena, according to a new Journal of Democracy book, Authoritarianism Goes Global: The Challenge to Democracy. During this period, influential authoritarian countries―including China, Iran, Russia, Saudi Arabia, and Venezuela―have developed new tools and strategies to contain the spread of democracy and challenge the liberal international political order. Meanwhile, advanced democracies have retreated and failed to respond to the threat posed by the authoritarians. The book, which is published by the Johns Hopkins University Press, is co-edited by Larry Diamond, Marc F. Plattner, and Christopher Walker.The book explains how authoritarian regimes have developed a wide-ranging arsenal of “soft power” tools to subvert democratic norms and reshape the liberal international system. These include the use of new laws and regulations to repress civil society and independent media; an assault on the integrity of election monitoring, including the creation of “zombie” election monitors; the use of sophisticated state-backed international broadcasting outlets such as Russia’s RT and China’s CCTV to spread misinformation and propaganda; growing manipulation of cyberspace and efforts to establish authoritarian-friendly norms of internet governance; and the promotion of illiberal “counternorms,” more generally. Taken in sum, the authoritarians have sought to hijack the concept of “soft power.”The book’s key findings include:As the editors note in the book’s introduction, the stakes are exceedingly high for the international system as we know it: “The extent of the authoritarian challenge forces us to confront the disconcerting prospect that the most influential antidemocratic regimes are no longer content simply to contain democracy. Instead, they want to roll it back by reversing advances dating from the time of the democratic surge. Just a decade ago, few political observers could even have imagined such a development.”The book features a distinguished group of contributing authors, including Anne Applebaum, Anne-Marie Brady, Alexander Cooley, Javier Corrales, Ron Deibert, Larry Diamond, Patrick Merloe, Abbas Milani, Andrew Nathan, Marc F. Plattner, Peter Pomerantsev, Douglas Rutzen, Lilia Shevtsova, Alex Vatanka, Christopher Walker, and Frederic Wehrey.On April 14, 2016 at 12:00 p.m. (Eastern Daylight Time), the National Endowment for Democracy will host a public book launch event featuring William Dobson, chief international editor at National Public Radio and author of The Dictator’s Learning Curve; Fred Hiatt, editorial page editor at the Washington Post; Christopher Walker, Vice President for Studies and Analysis at the National Endowment for Democracy; and Marc F. Plattner, founding co-editor of the Journal of Democracy. It will take place at the National Endowment for Democracy in Washington, DC and be livestreamed at: http://www.ned.org/events/authoritarianism-goes-global-the-challenge-to-democracy/For media interviews with the editors or individual contributing authors, please contact Jane Riley Jacobsen at jane@ned.org or at (202)-378-9700. The April 2019 issue of the Journal of Democracy features a set of five articles...In his new book, Post-Communist Mafia State, Dr. Bálint...In the July 2018 issue of the Journal of Democracy,...Alexander Cooley, Steven Heydemann, Ronald Deibert,...The National Endowment for Democracy’s International Forum for Democratic...
#Journal of Democracy April 2016 Issue: “Latin America’s New Turbulence”#April 11, 2016#“Latin America’s New Turbulence” A number of Latin American countries are in the midst of turmoil. Brazil has been rocked by public anger over corruption, bringing President Dilma Rousseff to the brink of impeachment. Yet as Marcus André Melo explains in “Crisis and Integrity in Brazil,” this situation has also shown that rule of law in the country is strong. Other essays address the defeat of the Chavistas in Venezuela’s 2015 legislative elections, and the prospects for a democratic transition there; the victory of Mauricio Macri and the downfall of Peronism in Argentina’s 2015 presidential election; the dashed expectations for reform in Mexico; and the mounting troubles in Central America’s “Northern Triangle” of Guatemala, Honduras, and El Salvador.ChinaSeymour Martin Lipset famously argued that economic development would enlarge the middle class, and that the middle class would demand democracy. Andrew J. Nathan tries to piece together “The Puzzle of the Chinese Middle Class,” examining whether this proposition is likely to hold true in China.“Burma Votes for Change”In November 2015, Burmese voters gave a sweeping victory to the opposition National League for Democracy (NLD), the party of Nobel Peace prize winner Aung San Suu Kyi, over the military-backed party that had led the country since 2011. As Igor Blaževič details in “The Challenges Ahead,” the NLD has a tall order to fill: providing better governance and improving the economy, forging national reconciliation in a country riven for decades by ethnic conflict, and devising some sort of federal arrangement that will be acceptable to both the military and the ethnic-minority groups. In “The New Configuration of Power,” Min Zin explains how Burma’s former military rulers can use various constitutional provisions to foil the new NLD government. Finally, Bridget Welsh, Kai-Ping Huang, and Yun-han Chu provide insight into the “Clashing Attitudes Toward Democracy” of Burma’s citizens and the problems these may pose for democratic government. The April issue also features:For the complete Table of Contents, please visit www.journalofdemocracy.org. Photo: Rogerio Bromfman/Flickr (Creative Commons 2.0) Christopher Walker testifies before the U.S. House Permanent Select Committee...The April 2017 issue features a series of articles...Scott Mainwaring is the Eugene and Helen Conley Professor...The International Forum for Democratic Studies assesses...Columbia Professor Dr. Andrew J. Nathan will deliver...The June 2018 edition of the Forum newsletter explores the latest issue of the...
#Authoritarianism Goes Global — The American Interest#March 28, 2016#In an article published by The American Interest, Christopher Walker, Marc F. Plattner, and Larry Diamond write:“A new global competition in “soft power” is underway between democracy and autocracy, but only one side seems to be competing seriously. Many had assumed that the era of globalization would give democracies a huge advantage in this sphere, the basic argument being that a more open global political economy and the relentless flow of information across borders would boost open societies over repressive ones. But it is the undemocratic states that have been the nimblest at enhancing their influence.The leading authoritarian regimes have invested heavily in building vast and sophisticated soft-power arsenals that now operate in every corner of the world. This has occurred in the context of a decade-long global democratic decline, according to Freedom House, during which already authoritarian regimes have become even more repressive. At the same time, the most influential authoritarians—China, Russia, and Iran—have become more internationalist. Authoritarianism has gone global.” JuL 15, 2014Journal of Democracy July 2014 Issue: "The Maidan and...The January 2019 issue of the Journal of Democracy...In her CIMA report, Shanthi Kalathil delves into China’s...Johan Lagerkvist is professor of Chinese language and culture at Stockholm University.
#Stories From NED’s Africa Grantees#March 25, 2016#The National Endowment for Democracy is using the Storify platform to showcase the work of some of our partners. Read up on the work of some of NED’s Africa grantees from Zimbabwe, Nigeria, Liberia, South Sudan, and Democratic Republic of the Congo.Zimbabwean women’s rights advocate Glanis Changachirere will explore the difficulties...Prospects and Conditions for a Transition to Democracy...In the wake of the 2013-14 Maidan protests and change...Liberia is moving beyond war atrocities, blood diamonds...Activist Passy Mubalama examined how the current political...Since 2009, NED has made it a priority to strengthen emerging independent policy...
#Is Democracy in Decline? featured in Democracy & Society#March 24, 2016#The Fall/Winter 2016 issue of Democracy & Society, published by the Center for Democracy and Civil Society at Georgetown University, included as its leading article an essay by Journal of Democracy co-editor Marc F. Plattner reflecting on the current state of democracy within its important historical context and contrasting different perspectives regarding whether there has simply been democratic slowdown or downturn.The issue also includes a book review of the Journal of Democracy book, Is Democracy in Decline? Photo: Sara Semelka/Flickr (Creative Commons 2.0) At a panel discussion celebrating the publication of Larry Diamond's new collection...2006 Seymour Martin Lipset Lecture on Democracy...Journal of Democracy coeditor Marc F. Plattner discusses...The April 2019 issue of the Journal of Democracy features...Dean Jackson of the International Forum for Democratic... Washington, DC — The pro-democracy demonstrations in Hong Kong are...
#Is Democracy in Retreat?#March 22, 2016#Warsaw-based Polish Newspaper Gazeta Wyborcza sat down with NED President Carl Gershman to discuss whether Democracy was in retreat around the globe. GAZETA WYBORCZA: Europe was divided by the Iron Curtain in June 1982, when President Ronald Reagan, in his address to the British Parliament, proposed that the United States undertake a bi-partisan global campaign for democracy.GERSHMAN: In the Westminster Address, which was one of the most important speeches of Reagan’s presidency, the President recalled a marker in the center of Warsaw, showing that the distances from Warsaw to Moscow and Warsaw to Brussels are equal. The sign, he said, makes this point: Poland is not East or West. Poland is at the center of European civilization. Remember that the speech was given only months after the imposition of martial law, when Solidarity’s struggle for democracy and against totalitarianism was on everyone’s mind. When the President said that “optimism comes less easily today, not because democracy is less vigorous, but because democracy’s enemies have refined their instruments of repression,” his point of reference was martial law and the suppression of Solidarity. He added that optimism is still “in order, because day by day democracy is proving itself to be a not-at-all-fragile flower.”NED is proud to stand with the YSPS as it helps the country make up for 50 years...Read remarks by Carl Gershman during Democracy Serivce...National Endowment for Democracy President Carl Gershman...Read the welcome and introductions by Carl Gershman.“Speaking Truth to Power: Media Capture, Disinformation...Zimbabwean women’s rights advocate Nyaradzo Mashayamombe discussed the state...
#What President Obama needs to say about Cuba’s elections#March 18, 2016#Article by Carl Gershman in the Washington Post on March 17, 2016.President Obama’s forthcoming visit to Cuba comes as preparations are being completed for the Seventh Congress of the Cuban Communist Party (PCC), scheduled to open in Havana on April 16. The main order of business will be to establish the process for transferring power to a new generation of Cuban leaders in 2018, when Raúl Castro will step down as president. While this change will mark the end of the Castro era in Cuban politics, the regime has made clear that it considers the current system “irrevocable ” and that it won’t renounce a single one of its “revolutionary and anti-imperialist” principles, as the party’s official newspaper, Granma, stated recently in an editorial on Obama’s visit.The chief item on the agenda of the Seventh Congress will be the consideration of a new electoral law for the general election in 2018, when Castro’s successor will be chosen. Under the current system, according to the independent blogger Yoani Sánchez, “the electoral machinery is strictly controlled” to ensure whatever outcomes the regime wants. Control is enforced at the grass roots by the Committees for the Defense of the Revolution (CDRs), which Fidel Castro called “a Revolutionary system of collective surveillance” when he established it in 1960. The CDRs determine the voter lists and oversee town hall assemblies at which candidates are nominated by a show of hands. The overall voter registry is administered by the Ministry of the Interior, which is a military institution. There is no secret ballot, and fear of reprisals blocks the selection of candidates who might have “counter-revolutionary” views. Campaigning is not allowed, candidates are banned from putting forward a program, and there is no right to ask what a candidate thinks about a specific problem. Voters, according to Sánchez, cast ballots “for a photo and a list of merits — as inflated as they are impossible to prove.” Needless to say, the PCC is the only recognized party.The regime has not offered any details about the changes to the law being considered, presumably, to give some legitimacy to the 2018 election. There is talk, for example, of allowing the electorate a choice of candidates, and candidates might be permitted to engage in public debates. But the changes are unlikely to be more than cosmetic, another example of what Cuban democracy leader Oswaldo Payá, who died in 2012 under suspicious circumstances, called “a fraudulent change so those that have all the power may keep it and once more marginalize the people of Cuba.”But Cuban democrats are not ready to accept that. Rosa María Payá, the daughter of the martyred activist, has launched a campaign called Cuba Decides that builds upon her father’s famous Varela Project and calls for a plebiscite on whether to hold free, fair and multiparty elections. And just last week a coalition of pro-democracy nongovernmental organizations called Another 18 (#Otro18) presented the draft of an alternative electoral law to the National Assembly and held a news conference and a forum on the theme “For Freedom of Choice.”The alternative law drafted by Another 18 is a comprehensive set of legislative proposals to guarantee the right to freely elect officials and to remove the CDRs from the process; to establish transparent rules for updating and correcting the electoral registry; to give citizens the right to run as candidates for public office at all levels, thereby eliminating the Candidacy Commissions and town hall assemblies that control the nomination process; to recognize the basic freedoms of expression, assembly and association that are essential for real electoral competition; and to establish an independent electoral body to administer the voter registry and safeguard the integrity of elections.The regime is fearful that Another 18 might begin to mobilize grass-roots support for its proposals, and it arrested José Daniel Ferrer, the leader of the Patriotic Union of Cuba, and detained others to prevent them from participating in the forum on free elections. International support for those fighting for democracy in Cuba has never been more needed.When former president Jimmy Carter visited Cuba in 2002, he used an unprecedented public address carried live on state radio and television to urge that Cuba “join the community of democracies,” and to praise the Varela Project, which most Cubans knew nothing about, as the government had forbidden any mention of it by state media.Obama needs to do at least as much when he visits next week. Given the timing of his visit, right before the party congress and at a moment when Cubans are beginning to think about the potentially historic election in 2018, his endorsement of the proposals advanced by Another 18 and for the cause of real democracy in Cuba could have far-reaching consequences.Diplomatic relations between the Cuban government and the United States have now been normalized. The time has come for the Cuban government to normalize its relations with the Cuban people.National Endowment for Democracy President Carl Gershman...NED President Carl Gershman's remarks at 2019 NED Democracy...Carl Gershman on a Nobel Laureate’s sobering message...NED's president spoke on the "Autocratic Superpowers’ Methodology of Influence"...
#Democracy in Retreat as Authoritarianism Goes Global#March 14, 2016#The Washington Post editorial board discussed the findings of Authoritarianism Goes Global, a new Journal of Democracy book edited by Larry Diamond, Marc F. Plattner, and Christopher Walker.A remarkable wave of democratic change that began in the mid-1970s climaxed after the Cold War. According to a new book, Authoritarianism Goes Global, from 1990 to 2005, the number of countries identified by Freedom House as “electoral democracies” grew from 76 to 119. During the same period, the number of countries rated “free” expanded from 65 to 89. In the January issue of the Journal of Democracy, Christopher Walker writes that a central assumption during these golden years was that authoritarian regimes would change if only they were engaged by democracies and shown the way. But they did not. In its latest annual survey, Freedom House found 2015 to be the 10th consecutive year of decline in global freedom. “Rather than reforming, most of these repressive regimes have deepened their authoritarianism,” Mr. Walker writes. Read the Challenge of Resurgent Authoritarianism: Can...Melissa Aten of the International Forum for Democratic...The National Endowment for Democracy (NED) will present...The Journal of Democracy October issue features essays on authoritarianism,...
#Human Rights Abuses in Putin’s Russia#March 2, 2016#Remarks by NED President Carl Gershman to The Senate Human Rights Caucus, March 2, 2016I want to thank Senator Kirk and Senator Coons for organizing this discussion to remember Boris Nemtsov and to demonstrate our solidarity with the tens of thousands of brave Russians who are carrying forward Nemtsov’s struggle for a democracy.   More than 30,000 people marched in Moscow on the anniversary of Nemtsov’s murder, and there were rallies remembering him in St. Petersburg, Nizhny Novgorod, Yaroslavl, and dozens of other cities, which is quite remarkable given the harsh laws the Putin government has passed against public assemblies.Since Putin’s return to the presidency in 2012, assaults on freedom of association and expression have been among the serious human rights abuses in Russia.  His regime was badly rattled by the protest movement that was triggered by his return to power, and he has responded by clamping down on any organization or movement operating independently from the government. Attacks on NGOs have in many ways resembled attacks on political activists such as Boris Nemtsov.  The “foreign agents” law was designed to portray independent organizations with international ties as sinister, anti-Russian tools of the West – the same insinuations frequently leveled at opposition activists.  As with political oppositionists, many prominent NGO leaders have been targets of a sustained and vicious smear campaign perpetrated by state-media propaganda. In both cases, the result has been to create a climate of hate leading to constant harassment, threats, and attacks. As a result, many NGO leaders and political activists have been forced to leave the country.The latest move against Russian NGOs is the law on so-called “undesirable foreign organizations,” which shows that the regime intends to continue ratcheting up pressure on independent civil society until nothing is left. It seems likely that a similar process is planned for the political opposition.In both cases, we can expect Ramzan Kadyrov, the head of the Chechen Republic and Putin’s close ally, to represent the most extreme, lawless, and violent component of the campaign of repression.  Kadyrov has been involved in the murder of many prominent Russian democrats, including the great journalist Anna Politkovskaya and the human rights defender Natalia Estemirova.  Nemtsov’s murder, for which there is considerable evidence also pointing to Kadyrov’s complicity, represented a wholly new level of intimidation against the opposition: the assassination, directly in front of the Kremlin, of a former high-ranking government minister who was at the time one of Russia’s most prominent opposition figures. The alleged murderer, Zaur Dadayev, was an officer in a battalion controlled by Kadyrov, who praised Dadayev as “a true patriot of Russia.” In the absence of any consequences for this heinous act, Kadyrov has continued to make not only general threats against the opposition, but also explicit death threats against specific figures.  Last month he posted a video on his Instagram page, with Russian opposition leaders Mikhail Kasyanov and Vladimir Kara-Murza shown through the crosshairs of a sniper rifle.  The video was accompanied by Kadyrov’s threat: “Whoever doesn’t get it will get it!”Despite this dark picture, there is reason for hope. On the occasion of the anniversary of Nemtsov’s murder, his colleague Ilya Yashin showed incredible bravery by publishing a report documenting Kadyrov’s crimes entitled “A Threat to National Security.”  The purpose of the report, Yashin has said, is “to open Russian society’s eyes to the fact that Ramzan Kadyrov, with the connivance of the country’s authorities and secret services, has become a figure that poses a threat to Russia’s national security.” Kadyrov, who is the creation of the Putin regime, controls a criminal state within a state.  Since “its loyalty,” as the report notes, “depends entirely on the Russian federal government satisfying Ramzan Kadyrov’s financial and political appetites,” Kadyrov is uncontrollable and is not just a threat to Russia but “is our common problem at a global level.”  Therefore, according to the report, “The very least the West can do to protect itself is to put Ramzan Kadyrov and his accomplices on the Magnitsky List for gross violations of human rights, add Kremlin propagandists there for creating the atmosphere of hatred, and start an independent international investigation of Boris Nemtsov’s murder.” Just yesterday in the European Parliament, Yashin, Kasyanov, Kara-Murza, and Nemtsov’s daughter Zhanna Nemtsova called once again upon the international community to help bring the masterminds of Nemtsov’s murder to justice. There is also reason for hope in the continuing struggle of Russian NGOs, which have fought the new repressive laws every step of the way with unyielding determination.  I was recently visited by the leader of a major Russian pro-democracy organization, who told me that Russian NGOs and activists can survive Putin’s repression.  What they cannot survive, he said, is the termination of support by Western governments and private foundations.  Ludmilla Alexeeva, the founder of the Moscow Helsinki Group and Russia’s most prominent human rights defender, wrote last week in The Washington Post that Russian activists “are fighting for the values that attracted Western aid in the first place….Surely the project of defending freedom in Russia is worth pursuing while there are Russians willing to stand up for it.”I am humbled and amazed by the courage of these Russian democrats.  Last May 26, just weeks after he spoke in the U.S. Congress at a symposium memorializing his friend Boris Nemtsov, Vladimir Kara-Murza suffered a severe poisoning that resulted in multiple organ failure and a coma, and that nearly led to his death.  Miraculously he survived – doctors had given him only a 5% chance to live – and he has now returned to Russia to continue his work for freedom, democracy, and human rights.We must never abandon someone like Vladimir Kara-Murza, and there are many others like him in Russia today who are prepared to defend their dignity and rights in the face of the most murderous and barbaric threats.  If we forget them, our country will lose contact with its roots and values, and the result will be devastating for our national interests and moral identity.  So let us do whatever we can to show them that they’re not alone, and that they have our full support and solidarity.Warsaw-based Polish Newspaper Gazeta Wyborcza sat down with NED President Carl...The State of Religious Freedom in RussiaTHIS EVENT...This article is based on remarks Carl Gershman delivered...Remarks given at the "Two Decades of US-Taiwan Relations"...The National Endowment for Democracy is pleased to announce its Spring 2018...
#North Korea: Why Human Rights Must Come First, Editorial in World Affairs Journal#February 22, 2016#This article, as it appeared World Affairs Journal, is based on remarks Carl Gershman delivered at the conference “North Korea: The Human Condition and Security Nexus,” held at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington, D.C., on February 19, 2016. The second anniversary of the United Nations Commission of Inquiry report on human rights in North Korea occurred on February 17, soon after North Korea’s launch of a long-range rocket in violation of international sanctions banning the use of ballistic missile technology. The launch, which followed North Korea’s fourth nuclear test the previous month, was immediately condemned by the U.N. Security Council and by Secretary Ban Ki-moon, who said the launch was “deeply deplorable.” The Secretary General also called on North Korea to “halt its provocative actions,” after which North Korea’s dictator defiantly pledged to launch additional rockets. The crisis has raised new questions about how to deal with the threat from North Korea. Until now, the conventional policy approach has separated security issues from human rights concerns.  Raising human rights problems in North Korea has been seen as provocative and a sure way to scuttle efforts to resolve the North Korean nuclear problem through negotiations. But there is now a growing skepticism about the possibility that negotiations with North Korea can produce meaningful results. The problem is not just that many people have given up on the idea of getting China to use the leverage it has with North Korea to bring it to the negotiating table. Like the earlier effort during the Bush Administration to denuclearize North Korea through the Six-Party talks, playing the China card has become the diplomatic equivalent of a wild-goose chase. The reason is that for the regime in Pyongyang, the nuclear issue is an existential matter. It sees having nuclear weapons as the key to its survival and believes that negotiating them away would be suicidal, no matter what economic and political benefits it might receive in return.The basic issue, therefore, is not transactional but has to do with the nature of the North Korean regime. North Korea is the most oppressive example in the world today of what the former Soviet dissident, Natan Sharansky, has called a “fear society,” meaning a country where the government maintains control by instilling fear in the hearts of everyone it rules over. What is different about North Korea is that it is the regime itself that is afraid—afraid of the modern world, afraid of the free Korean society across its border, afraid of its own people. The fact that such a paranoid regime uses the possession of nuclear weapons to try to guarantee its survival makes it, to say the least, exceedingly dangerous.Reflecting the views of many people who follow the North Korea problem, the former US Ambassador to China Winston Lord said recently that “We need a radically different approach,” one that is based on the understanding that the North Korean system is a closed dynastic dictatorship, and that until it becomes a more open and normal country, it will represent a security threat to its neighbors and the world. The idea that international security and human rights are intimately linked is not new. It was the core belief of Dr. Andrei Sakharov, the physicist and Soviet dissident who said in his Nobel Lecture in 1975 that disarmament and international security “are inconceivable without an open society with freedom of information, freedom of conscience, the right to publish and the right to travel” freely. In an essay he wrote in 1977 for the Norwegian Nobel Committee, he noted that the “human rights issue is not simply a moral one, but also a paramount, practical ingredient of international trust and security.”There are two necessary components of a policy to deal with such a regime. The first is to contain North Korea by taking steps to deter its aggressive behavior, among them the imposition of comprehensive sanctions and the deployment in South Korea of an effective system of ballistic missile defense. The second is to change it by defending the human rights of the North Korean people. That means doing what we can to end their isolation from the outside world, to empower them, and to give them a voice in determining their country’s future. Only then might there emerge—from within the country’s elite class—people who realize that the current system is doomed and who want to seek a peaceful way to a better future. It’s time, therefore, for specialists in both the security and human rights areas of policy begin a common discussion of how to fashion a more integrated approach to dealing with North Korea.Fifteen years ago, when the US Committee for Human Rights in North Korea was launched in the wake of the 9/11 terrorist attacks, the group’s founding chair Dr. Fred Ikle said that it would focus on internal liberalization in North Korea as a way to address the concern over state-sponsored terrorism.  Ikle, the author of How Nations Negotiate and other works on international policy, was America’s leading defense intellectual who understood the need for an approach that would link issues of international security to efforts that encourage greater openness and freedom in closed societies. “In the end,” he said, “democracy and the rule of law, desirable in and of themselves, are also a guarantee of peace and security.” That is the comprehensive vision that must now guide US policy on North Korea.Carl Gershman gives an interview to Oslobodjenje, Bosnia and Herzegovina's leading...The January 2019 issue of the Journal of Democracy...Read the welcome and introductions by Carl Gershman.A half-day conference honoring the legacy of Jan Nowak-Jeziorański.“Speaking Truth to Power: Media Capture, Disinformation..."Why Democracy in Hong Kong Matters"﻿ The National Endowment...
#The New Fight: Cuba and the Movement for Democracy#February 10, 2016#Carl Gershman’s article as published in the World Affairs Journal on February 10, 2016.When President Obama and Raúl Castro announced, in December 2014, their intention to normalize relations between the United States and Cuba, the Cuban opposition leader Manuel Cuesta Morúa said that the opening represented “the end of the ‘epic’ stage and the beginning of the political stage for civil society” in his country. This, I think, was his way of signaling the importance of the change that had occurred and how it would affect the movement for democracy in Cuba. It signified a shift from a time when the only form of meaningful political expression was resistance to a totalitarian dictatorship to a new era in which more varied forms of struggle would be both possible and necessary.Since the opening, the US has been reluctant to use its leverage to try to pry open political space in Cuba, and the Castro regime has aggressively sought to secure greater legitimacy and economic advantages for Cuba without liberalizing politically or reducing its repression of Cuban dissidents. What needs to be emphasized at the outset, therefore, is that Cuba has not entered a period of democratic transition, and the current Cuban regime is nothing like the authoritarian military dictatorships in Chile, Brazil, and other Latin American countries that underwent a democratic transition during the 1980s.What distinguishes the Castro dictatorship from the old military regimes in Latin America is that it still has the features of what political scientists Steven Levitsky and Lucan Way call a “revolutionary regime,” meaning one that emerged out of “sustained, ideological, and violent struggle from below, and whose establishment is accompanied by mass mobilization and significant efforts to transform state structures and the existing social order.Such regimes, they write, are strikingly resistant to democratization because they have destroyed all independent power centers, social institutions, and economic structures. (In Cuba’s case, Castroism also significantly weakened, even if it did not completely eliminate, the Catholic Church.) In addition, such regimes have strong ruling parties and cohesive mass organizations; they are resistant to coups because of the overlap between the ruling civilian and military elites; and they have powerful coercive structures that they don’t hesitate to use.Therefore, in evaluating the consequences of the Obama administration’s overtures to Castro, we have to start by recognizing that the Cuban regime is more deeply rooted than the Latin American military dictatorships of the past, and it does not allow the pluralism or have the internal divisions that had a lot to do with the successful democratic transitions in those countries three decades ago.There is one other additional feature that is different, and it is that Cuba—because of its revolutionary and anti-imperialist posturing—has not been subject to the same degree of international pressure that was put on the Pinochet dictatorship in Chile, for instance, or the apartheid regime in South Africa. Relatively speaking, the Cuban dictatorship has been given a free pass by the international community, as demonstrated by the international silence on human rights violations it has regularly committed and the fact that despite these abuses, and its support of Soviet imperialism in the past and North Korean totalitarianism today, Havana has nonetheless been allowed to play a leading role in UN bodies, the nonaligned movement, and other international structures.Yet the Cuban regime also has some very powerful vulnerabilities. Chief among these are its proximity to the United States and the many cultural affinities between our two countries—music and baseball being just two of the most obvious. The stronger these ties, the greater the internal pressures will be for freedom and democratic normalcy in Cuba. Levitsky and Way also write that a less confrontational international context can undermine the cohesion of a revolutionary dictatorship, which explains why the Castro regime has stepped up repression in the period since the opening with the United States. The number of political arrests in the first nine months of 2015 was 5,146, well over twice the number of arrests recorded in all of 2010. There were 882 arrests in September alone. Again, this does not indicate a strong regime but a vulnerable one.There is also the additional factor of what we might call the inevitable erosion of totalitarianism, which affects even revolutionary totalitarian regimes. Totalitarian erosion is not the same thing as liberalization, but it does lead to more space for people at the bottom and less control from the top. In this regard, Cuba today shares some of the features that we saw in the Central European Communist dictatorships in the period before 1989. These include a limited increase in economic and cultural pluralism, even in the absence of political pluralism; a significant weakening of the regime’s political legitimacy as a result of its economic failures and ideological exhaustion, even as it continues to mouth the old revolutionary rhetoric; a decrease in the internal cohesion and member loyalty of state-run mass organizations of youth, workers, and intellectuals; and the replacement of charismatic leaders by technocrats, even if the old leaders have not yet finally passed from the scene.The Polish philosopher Leszek Kolakowski prophetically called attention to the importance of such developments in 1987, noting that they opened new possibilities for change in Poland and other Central European countries, even if they had not yet altered the core principle of totalitarian systems, which is the monopoly of political power by an unaccountable Communist Party dictatorship. For the last few years, Cuba has followed this pattern, as a result of which the Cuban democracy movement has been able to establish what Kolakowski called “enclaves of civil society” within the totalitarian system, just as the Polish movement had succeeded in doing in the decade before the fall of Communism. The Castro regime would obviously like to stop this process of erosion and promote what Cuban dissident Oswaldo Payá, in his video message memorializing Vaclav Havel in January 2012, criticized as a “fraudulent change” under which “those that have all the power may keep it and once more marginalize the people of Cuba.”I think the regime sees two possible models for accomplishing this. One is the China-Vietnam model of introducing economic liberalization while maintaining the Communist system of control. The second is a hybrid regime of the kind sometimes called “competitive authoritarianism.” (Vladimir Putin a few years back called it “managed democracy,” and Venezuelan strongman Hugo Chávez called it “Bolivarian democracy.”) This model permits a charade of formal democratic features, such as fraudulent elections, a few compliant NGOs, and some very limited independent media. But the regime’s power and control are not seriously challenged.The second option, with all its cosmetic changes, involves more risks since the opposition can try to take advantage of even very small openings. Yet the fact that Raúl Castro has announced that he will step down in 2018, and that the regime is planning to amend the electoral law as part of a process to install younger leaders through an election, suggests that the regime has opted for the hybrid model. The young leaders they have in mind, it seems, include Raúl’s son, the intelligence chief Alejandro Castro Espín, and his son-in-law General Luis Alberto Rodriguez, who runs the business administration branch of the army that controls 80 percent of the Cuban economy.Though the regime has no intention of allowing a genuine opening or relinquishing power, I think it has nonetheless started a process that cannot escape the logic of democratic transition, even if the conditions for a real transition are not yet present.The approach that Cuesta Morúa and other Cuban dissidents have adopted is consistent with the established principles that have guided real transitions to democracy in Eastern Europe and elsewhere in the “post-totalitarian” era.The first is that existing coalitions and opposition groups in Cuba should, without necessarily merging, work together based on common goals. We all know that there are different tendencies within the opposition movement in Cuba—the sort of differences that exist in every opposition movement fighting for democracy in a dictatorial country. (In Franco’s Spain, for instance, some dissidents wanted to reform the system, while others wanted a complete rupture with it.) The point is that the opposition, while not uniform, should still try to preserve unity, which in any case is much more important than uniformity. Diversity is a strength.The second principle, which flows from the first, is that it is important to welcome and support different opposition strategies for advancing democracy. One never knows what will be the catalyst provoking a breakthrough or significant change, and it’s important to keep the options open in the democratization struggle.The third principle is to acknowledge that even though many democracy activists may be unhappy with the policies of the United States and other governments toward Cuba, they should not allow themselves to become isolated internationally, but should continue to reach out to potential allies abroad and try to build ties of dialogue and cooperation.The fourth principle is that the Cuban democracy movement should pursue the politics of the possible as the best way to move toward the politics of what is desirable. This means recognizing the inevitability of gradualism, the necessity for pragmatism, and the need to take advantage of opportunities when they present themselves. Being pragmatic does not mean that there is not also the need for mobilization and resistance. As is the case with every movement for democracy, there is the need for both militancy and conciliation. Struggle and organization will be needed to open the way for possible negotiations at some point and a real transition.The fifth principle is that since change in Cuba must necessarily come from within, supporters of the Cuban movement outside the island need to connect with the Cuban people by supporting authentic indigenous initiatives for democratic change.All these principles make sense, in my view, and I want to add just some of my own. One is that the United States and other democratic governments should not accept a hybrid regime in Cuba as an acceptable alternative to dictatorship. Competitive authoritarianism is arguably marginally better than full-blown dictatorship, but it’s not democracy, and if democratic leaders in the United States, Europe, and Latin America appear to embrace it, they’re going to betray the Cuban people and undermine the moral and political case for democracy.A second is that we must do everything we can to end the free pass on human rights that the Cuban dictatorship has enjoyed until now. Ironically, even if one takes a dim view of the process to date of normalization of relations between Cuba and the US, this development may actually make it easier to mobilize support for democracy in Cuba since Castro apologists will now find it harder to blame the United States for all of Cuba’s problems.The third principle is to insist upon the observance of democratic norms and to oppose any attempt to apply a double standard to Cuba. If the regime actually does amend its electoral law in preparation for an election after Castro steps down in 2018, then we should insist that it be a real election that is consistent with international norms. That means elections that are free and fair, with the opposition being able to organize and campaign, with a level playing field, and with the whole process monitored by international observers.And finally, we must help the opposition strengthen its international stature and relationships. There needs to be a growing body of support in Latin America for a real transition in Cuba, and the Cuban democratic movement must have a voice in the process of establishing a new relationship between Cuba and the European Union. Obviously, it is also essential that the United States do much more to support the struggle in Cuba for democracy, human rights, and the rule of law. Six years ago, when I presented the Cuban Democratic Directorate’s Pedro Luis Boitel Freedom Award, in absentia, to the imprisoned Cuban dissident Iván Hernández Carrillo, I contrasted Boitel and Che Guevara, the emblematic representatives of the two contradictory tendencies within the revolutionary movement. Boitel represented the movement’s democratic aspirations, for which he was imprisoned and gave his life. And Guevara was the leader of the hard-line, pro-Soviet faction that imposed a harsh totalitarian system on the Cuban people. At the time I asked the following question, which is especially relevant today: “Between Boitel and Che, who will ultimately win—the democratic martyr whose unmarked grave has become a shrine for Cuban dissidents, or the murderous cult figure whose image adorns countless T-shirts?” Fidel Castro once famously declared that “History will absolve me.” But history has now bypassed Castro, and I think that, in the end, it is Boitel whom history will absolve.For that to happen, though, the opposition will have to learn how to supplement courage and implacable resistance to oppression with strategic thinking and political organization, something it is already beginning to do. Despite all the difficulties, I think that the conditions are favorable for their struggle. Their cause is just, and they are up against a regime that has lost whatever raison d’être it may once have had, is deeply corrupt, and now appears ideologically bankrupt to its own people and, increasingly, to people outside.Because of the exaggerated and perverse role that Cuba has played in international politics for more than half a century, a democratic breakthrough in Cuba will not only liberate the Cuban people but will give new momentum to the movement to strengthen and expand democracy in the world. The Cuban struggle for democracy has entered a new and fateful period with the normalization of relations between Cuba and the United States.  Now it’s time for the Cuban government to normalize relations with its own people. The Cuban people should not be alone in fighting for this goal. They need and deserve the solidarity of democrats everywhere. Carl Gershman is the president of the National Endowment for Democracy. This article is adapted from an address delivered on October 22, 2015, to the conference celebrating the 25th anniversary of the Cuban Democratic Directorate.NED will host legendary Belarusian rock musician and...Andrew H. Card Jr., former White House chief of staff...One way or another, a transition in North Korea is coming. The COI has made...
#Christopher Walker is New Vice President for Studies and Analysis at National Endowment for Democracy#February 5, 2016#For Immediate ReleaseDATE:  February 5, 2016CONTACT:  Jane Riley Jacobsen, (202)378-9700 jane@ned.orgChristopher Walker is New Vice President for Studies and Analysis at National Endowment for DemocracyWASHINGTON, D.C. — Christopher Walker has been named the new Vice President for Studies and Analysis at the Washington-based National Endowment for Democracy (NED).  In his new position, Walker joins the leadership team at NED and continues to oversee the activities of NED’s International Forum for Democratic Studies, a leading center for the analysis and discussion of democratic development, where Walker was most recently executive director.  Walker’s predecessor as Vice President, Marc F. Plattner, will remain at NED on a part-time basis.  Plattner, who joined NED in 1984, continues to serve as co-editor of the Journal of Democracy.“The NED is extremely fortunate to have Chris Walker as its new Vice President for Studies and Analysis,” said NED President Carl Gershman.  “He brings to the position broad knowledge of democratic theory and practice, a deep understanding of the great problems facing democracy today, and an ability to promote collaboration and deeper linkages between analysts of democracy and activists who are on the front lines of efforts to defend democratic values and processes.  We’re also delighted that Marc Plattner will be staying on as the editor of the Journal of Democracy, which he – together with Larry Diamond – has built into the world’s foremost publication in the field of democracy studies. The International Forum pursues it goals through several interrelated initiatives: publishing the Journal of Democracy, the world’s leading publication on the theory and practice of democracy; hosting fellowship programs for international democracy activists, journalists, and scholars; coordinating the Network of Democracy Research Institutes, a global think tank network; and organizing a diverse range of analytical initiatives to explore critical themes relating to democratic development.Prior to joining the NED, Walker was Vice President for Strategy and Analysis at Freedom House, where he was responsible for devising overall strategy for Freedom House’s analytical projects on democratic development and media freedom. Prior to Freedom House, he was a senior associate at the EastWest Institute, and program manager at the European Journalism Network. Walker has also served as an Adjunct Professor of International Affairs at New York University. He holds a B.A. degree from Binghamton University and an M.A. from Columbia University’s School of International and Public Affairs. His articles have appeared in the Wall Street Journal, New York Times, Washington Post, Foreign Policy.com, Barron’s, The Far Eastern Economic Review, European Voice, Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung, Die Welt, The Moscow Times, Politico.com, Journal of Democracy, and World Affairs. He is co-editor with Larry Diamond and Marc F. Plattner of Authoritarianism Goes Global: The Challenge to Democracy (Johns Hopkins University Press, March 2016).The “internet of things” is made up of device networks...Eight of the world’s leading public intellectuals...In the July 2018 issue of the Journal of Democracy,...The July 2018 "quick hits" newsletter provides updates...The International Forum for Democratic Studies outlines which factors set disinformation...
#APSA-CD Newsletter: Opposition in Authoritarian Regimes#January 27, 2016#“Most studies of authoritarian political systems examine their inner workings, or the ways regime insiders use resources to limit activities threatening their hegemony. The authors here focus explicitly on opposition to these regimes and offer new insights, as well as venues for further research in the study of authoritarian opposition,” writes Eitan Tzelgov, the guest editor of APSA-CD’s January 2016 newsletter on “Opposition in Authoritarian Regimes.”APSA-CD Newsletter is produced three times per year and features 3-5 original articles on democratization, as well as bibliographic information on new research from leading political scientists and academic journals.The International Forum for Democratic Studies serves as the Secretariat for the APSA-Comparative Democratization section, and each issue of APSA-CD is jointly produced by the Forum and the Varieties of Democracy Institute (V-Dem) at the University of Gothenburg.Reagan-Fascell Fellow Maxine Tanya Hamada spoke about the cycles of moving from...The January 2019 issue of the Journal of Democracy...In this episode of Democracy Ideas, Anne-Marie Brady...Democratization scholars analyze historical cases of...NED will honor defenders of human and religious rights in China.
#Ethiopia: Silencing Dissent — Journal of Democracy January 2016#January 22, 2016#In Ethiopia’s May 2015 parliamentary elections, the long-ruling Ethiopian People’s Revolutionary Democratic Front (EPRDF), together with its allies, claimed a historic victory with 100 percent of the seats. Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellow Simegnish “Lily” Mengesha writes in the Journal of Democracy January 2016 issue that this result is not a surprising as it might seem. Since the 2005 general elections—the most contested in the nation’s history—the party has been using antiterrorism laws and harsh restrictions on media and civil society to silence voices critical of the regime. The regime justifies its repressive measures by telling citizens that the country is in danger of ethnic strife and that maintaining law and order requires a firm approach. Like most autocratic regimes, however, the EPRDF worries that the more informed and connected the people are, the more empowered they will be to hold the government to account.“Currently there are no civil society organizations in Ethiopia actively addressing issues of human rights, democracy, or gender empowerment. Not only are the country’s most helpless populations even more vulnerable now, but problems such as poor governance, corruption, and weak rule of law are worsening in the absence of viable CSOs working to mitigate them.” Photo: David Stanley/Flickr (Creative Commons) OCT 15, 2015Worth Reading: Journal of Democracy October 2014 IssueForum...Joanna Rohozinska and Vitaliy Shpak assess Ukraine's...The June 2019 edition of the Forum newsletter features...Enlightened post Cold War Initiative for Peace Building and Democracy: Enhancing...
#Journal of Democracy January 2016 Issue: The Authoritarian Threat#January 21, 2016#In “China and the ‘Singapore Model,'” Stephan Ortmann and Mark R. Thompson examine China’s desire to learn from Singapore “how to combine authoritarian rule with ‘good governance.'” The authors write that the “emerging superpower” has “few peers to which it can compare itself,” and views Singapore as the best possible model. But China may be drawing the wrong lessons from the city-state’s experience.What is the “key institutional change needed to bring societies to the point where they are capable of controlling corruption and achieving good governance”? According to Alina Mungiu-Pippidi in “Learning from Virtuous Circles,” the first of four essays on “The Quest for Good Governance,” it is the shift from particularism — “humanity’s default condition” — to ethical universalism.In Ethiopia’s May 2015 parliamentary elections, the ruling party claimed a total victory, denying even a single seat to an opposition member or independent politician. Leonardo R. Arriola and Terrence Lyons see “The 100% Election” as a sign that authoritarianism in Ethiopia is hardening. The regime was able to achieve this astonishing result in part by muzzling its critics with the help of several broad and vague laws that enable the government to imprison journalists and close the space for civil society, as Simegnish Yekoye Mengesha explains in “Silencing Dissent.”For the complete Table of Contents, please visit Journal of Democracy website. Bo Rothstein holds the August Röhss Chair in Political...NED President Carl Gershman asks, "Does Democracy Matter?"...Steven Levitsky is Harvard College Professor and Professor...Prominent political scientists William A. Galston and Yascha Mounk will discuss...
#National Endowment for Democracy Adds Three to Board of Directors Skaggs, Applebaum, Horowitz begin three-year term#January 20, 2016#FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEDate:  January 20, 2016Contact:  Jane Riley Jacobsen (202) 378-9700 or jane@ned.orgWASHINGTON, D.C. –The National Endowment for Democracy (NED) has added three new members to its Board of Directors.  Former Congressman David Skaggs, author and columnist Anne Applebaum, and Duke University lawyer and political scientist Donald Horowitz were elected at NED’s January 2016 board meeting and have all begun their first three-year term. “These three outstanding individuals embody the highest standards of intellectual achievement and public service, and we are delighted to welcome each of them to the NED Board,” said NED president Carl Gershman. “Our grantees in every region of the world will benefit from their significant experience and insight, and their involvement will significantly aid NED’s mission of advancing democracy worldwide.”David Skaggs represented the 2nd district of Colorado in the U.S. Congress for six terms (1987-1999), where he was a member of the House Committee on Appropriations and the House Select Committee on Intelligence.  Throughout and after his time in Congress, Rep. Skaggs was committed to the cultivation of bipartisanship and to the improvement of the Congress as an institution.  He co-founded the House Bipartisan Retreat and the Constitutional Forum, and is currently Co-Chair of the Board of the Office of Congressional Ethics.  Rep. Skaggs is also currently a Senior Advisor with Dentons US LLP (formerly McKenna Long & Aldridge) and is an Adjunct Professor at the University of Colorado School of Law and an active Emeritus member and formerly Vice-Chair of the U. S. Public Interest Declassification Board.   He served in the cabinet of Colorado Governor Bill Ritter Jr. as Executive Director of the Colorado Department of Higher Education from January, 2007, to September 2009, during which time he was a Colorado Commissioner on the Western Interstate Commission on Higher Education. Prior to these positions, Skaggs was executive director of the Center for Democracy & Citizenship at the Aspen Institute and then the Council for Excellence in Government, and was Of Counsel to the Washington-based law firm, Hogan & Hartson (now HoganLovells). He has written and lectured widely.Anne Applebaum is a columnist for the Washington Post and Slate. She directs the Transitions Forum at the Legatum Institute in London and is an adjunct fellow of the Center for European Policy Analysis. Her book Gulag: A History, narrates the history of the Soviet concentration camps system and describes daily life in the camps, making extensive use of Russian archives, as well as memoirs and interviews. Published in 2003, Gulag won the Pulitzer Prize for non-fiction in 2004. Her most recent book, Iron Curtain: The Crushing of Eastern Europe, 1944-1956, published in 2012, describes the imposition of Soviet totalitarianism in Central Europe after the Second World War. Iron Curtain won the Cundill Prize for Historical Literature, among other prizes, and was shortlisted for the National Book Award. Formerly a member of the Washington Post editorial board, Applebaum has also worked as the Foreign and Deputy Editor of the Spectator magazine in London, as the Political Editor of the Evening Standard, and as a columnist at several British newspapers, including the Daily and Sunday Telegraphs. From 1988-1991 she covered the collapse of communism as the Warsaw correspondent of the Economist magazine.Donald L. Horowitz is the James B. Duke Professor Emeritus of Law and Political Science at Duke University. He is the author of seven books: The Courts and Social Policy (1977), which won the Louis Brownlow Award of the National Academy of Public Administration; The Jurocracy (1977), a book about government lawyers; Coup Theories and Officers’ Motives: Sri Lanka in Comparative Perspective(1980); Ethnic Groups in Conflict (1985, 2000); A Democratic South Africa? Constitutional Engineering in a Divided Society (1991), which won the Ralph Bunche Prize of the American Political Science Association; The Deadly Ethnic Riot (2001); and Constitutional Change and Democracy in Indonesia, published in 2013 by Cambridge University Press. He is currently writing a book about constitutional design, particularly for divided societies, a subject on which he has advised in a number of countries.Horowitz has taught and lectured widely in universities and law schools in the U.S. and abroad, has held several prestigious fellowships, and in 2009, was presented with the Distinguished Scholar Award of the Ethnicity, Nationalism, and Migration Section of the International Studies Association. Elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1993, he served as President of the American Society for Political and Legal Philosophy from 2007 to 2010. In 2006, was appointed to the Secretary of State’s Advisory Committee on Democracy Promotion.The National Endowment for Democracy was created in 1983 as a private, nonprofit, grant-making foundation with a mission to strengthen democratic institutions around the world through nongovernmental efforts. With an annual appropriation from the U.S. Congress, the NED Board, which is independent and bipartisan, makes more than a thousand grants each year to support prodemocracy groups in nearly 90 countries. The Endowment supports projects that promote political and economic freedom and participation, human rights, a strong civil society, independent media and the rule of law.# # # 
#Authoritarianism Goes Global: “The Hijacking of ‘Soft Power'”#January 13, 2016#In the January 2016 issue of the Journal of Democracy, NED Vice President for Studies and Analysis Christopher Walker explains the ways in which authoritarian regimes have hijacked the concept of “soft power”. By exploiting globalization and the opportunities presented by integration with the West, the leading repressive regimes have set out to undermine the very institutions and arenas that welcomed them:“Today, authoritarian regimes are projecting power beyond their borders. They are targeting crucial democratic institutions, including elections and the media. They use deep economic and business ties to export corrupt practices and insinuate themselves into the politics of democracies, both new and established. They are influencing international public opinion and investing heavily in their own instruments of “soft power” in order to compete with democracy in the realm of ideas.”Forthcoming in March 2016Authoritarianism Goes Global: The Challenge to DemocracyEdited by Larry Diamond, Marc F. Plattner, and Christopher WalkerJohns Hopkins University PressIn Authoritarianism Goes Global, a distinguished group of contributors present fresh insights on the complicated issues surrounding the authoritarian resurgence and the implications of these systemic shifts for the international order. This collection of essays is critical for advancing our understanding of the emerging challenges to democratic development. Photos (left to right): Andy Miah/Flickr,  Dany Simons/Flickr, Alejandro Villanueva/FlickrThe National Endowment for Democracy strongly condemns the prison sentence condemning...With great sadness, the National Endowment for Democracy...Read the Challenge of Resurgent Authoritarianism: Can...The Arab Spring after Two Years:Prospects for Democracy...The National Endowment for Democracy will honor defenders...Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellow Dr. Ladan Boroumand reflected on crucial phases...
#NED rebuts inaccurate charge of support for anti-Semitism#December 16, 2015#The National Endowment for Democracy (NED) was recently alerted to a blog post that detailed the virulently anti-Semitic remarks of one Gamal Abdel Nasser Mohammed Abu Nahel, who heads the Palestinian Commission for Refugee Rights Protection (PCRP).  The blogger, who did not contact NED to confirm his story, alleges that NED is one of several Western donors supporting the PCRP.  This is completely inaccurate.While NED did provide support to this group during the period of 2007-2011, NED does not currently fund the group and has never had a relationship with Gamal Abdel Nasser Mohammed Abu Nahel; furthermore, he had no affiliation with the PCRP during the period of NED support.The allegation, however, provides us with an opportunity to reaffirm our approach to grant-making to civil society groups in the region and around the world.First, we offer assurance that none of our funds are used for purposes, such as anti-Israel advocacy, not approved in our grant agreements. Second, our program officers regularly monitor grantee activities, statements, and websites to ensure that the organizations we fund do not endorse or incite violence or anti-Semitism, regardless of whether or not this is within the context of a NED-supported activity. We have zero tolerance for anti-Semitism or incitement to violence, and would immediately cease to fund any organization that engaged in it.
#A Nobel Laureate’s Sobering Message about Belarus#December 7, 2015#By Carl GershmanOn Monday, the Nobel Committee will present its prize for literature to Svetlana Alexievich, a writer from Belarus, which is frequently called “Europe’s last dictatorship.” Unlike most authors who have received this prize, Alexievich doesn’t write fiction or poetry. Her books are based on interviews with ordinary people who speak for themselves about the traumas of Belarus’s modern history, including the Chernobyl disaster, the war in Afghanistan, and the experience of being “preserved in a time warp” under the dictatorship of Alexander Lukashenko. These “voices of utopia,” as she calls them, document “Homo Sovieticus,” the mindset of people who live in what she calls a “second-hand time…of the old, old prejudices.”Click here to read article in its entirety.National Endowment for Democracy President Carl Gershman was honored to give...NED President Carl Gershman reviewed Blaine Harden’s...Carl Gershman gives an interview to Oslobodjenje, Bosnia...Read Carl Gershman's Remarks on authoritarianism in...Remarks by NED President Carl Gershman on the Enduring Importance of Suvash...
#NED Calls for Release of Egyptian Journalist Ismail Alexandrani#December 3, 2015#For Immediate Release December 3, 2015 Contact: Jane Riley Jacobsen (202) 378-9700 jane@ned.orgWASHINGTON—The National Endowment for Democracy (NED) expresses its grave concern over the detention of Egyptian investigative journalist and researcher Ismail Alexandrani, who served as a Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellow at NED’s International Forum for Democratic Studies in 2012–2013. Alexandrani was detained upon arrival at Egypt’s Hurghada airport on Sunday, November 29, following a trip to Berlin, and later questioned by authorities for nine hours in Cairo, before being charged with various alleged crimes related to his reporting on Egypt.  Alexandrani denies all charges.  “As a blogger, researcher, and human rights advocate, Ismail Alexandrani has been an unwavering voice for some of Egypt’s most marginalized communities, and an inspiration to many with his vision of a more inclusive Egypt,” said NED president Carl Gershman. “We are deeply troubled by the news of his detention and the Egyptian government’s criminalization of peaceful expression.”During his fellowship at NED, Alexandrani considered the role of digital and traditional media in Egypt and how new media may serve as a voice for marginalized populations. In 2014, he won an Open Eye Award for an essay on Cairo, and in 2009, he was a winner of the World Youth Movement for Democracy’s international essay contest.NED joins with other international organizations in calling for Alexandrani’s immediate and unconditional release.The National Endowment for Democracy (NED) will present...On Wednesday June 24, the National Endowment for Democracy...Remarks by NED President Carl Gershman at the Kyiv Jewish Forum.
#Grantee Spotlight: Press Start to Fund Independent Media#November 24, 2015#Do you live in a country where the media are not beholden to political or business interests? Where journalists are free to write they want, without fear of fines, beatings, imprisonment, or worse? If so, consider yourself one of a privileged few – a mere 14 percent of the world’s population, according to Freedom House, writes Jeremy Druker, a NED grantee and the founder of Press Start, and the executive director of Transitions (TOL).Today, the vast majority – more than six billion people – live in countries where journalists risk their careers, and sometimes lives, to report on governments, businesses, and other powers, exercising what is a democratic right in other nations.The free flow of information has never been more vital, but crippling political and financial pressures mean independent media struggle to survive, to produce quality journalism, or even to pay their reporters – no matter how talented and courageous they are.In response, Druker has introduced Press Start, the first global crowdfunding platform specifically created to fill that gap.  This is a project designed to create a new and revolutionary way to fund independent journalism in societies that are not free and emerging democracies. The site will connect journalists seeking to report the stories important to their communities with people around the world who believe in a free press and appreciate its importance to democracy.Read more about Press Start in on Democracy Digest.The murder last Friday of Boris Nemtsov, as he was crossing a bridge a stone’s...Denys Bihus leads TOM 14, a group of professional investigative...Brutal Censorship: Targeting Journalists in the North...Ms. Simegnish Mengesha is a seasoned journalist, media...On Thursday, September 11, at 11:00 AM, the National...In 2014, NED mourned the loss of Sardar Ahmad, a widely respected Afghan journalist...
#Journal of Democracy October Issue: Authoritarianism Goes Global (II)#October 28, 2015#The Journal of Democracy October issue features essays on authoritarianism, the aftermath of the Arab Spring, “non-Western democracy,” militarism in Latin America, and the impact of decentralization. In “The Rise of the World’s Poorest Countries,” Steven Radelet concludes: “For more than two decades now, the majority of the world’s poorest countries have been making some of the fastest and biggest development gains in history.” Among these impressive gains is the unprecedented number of low-income democracies. Steven Radelet spoke about his essay and forthcoming book at a panel discussion at NED on October 26.The Journal‘s latest installment in a series of essays on the global resurgence of authoritarianism focuses on two arenas in which authoritarians are increasingly making their influence felt: civil society and the media. First, Anne Applebaum reveals the Bolshevik roots of the Putin regime’s attempts to crush independent civil society. Next, Douglas Rutzen looks at the measures countries around the world are taking to limit the freedom of civil society organizations. The remaining two essays focus on authoritarian initiatives in the field of international media: Peter Pomerantsev shows how the Kremlin, having mastered Russia’s domestic media, is now seeking to sell its depictions of pseudoreality abroad; and Anne-Marie Brady traces China’s use of foreign propaganda to improve its global image and discredit its critics.A group of articles, including an introductory essay by Michele Dunne, takes stock of developments in the Middle East and North Africa since the wave of uprisings that began in late 2010. The authors focus on such topics as public opinion, voting patterns, secularism versus Islamism, and the role of the media. In “How the Media Trashed the Transitions,” Marc Lynch explores how the media drove the insurrections but also contributed to their inability to produce lasting democratic institutions.For more than 25 years, the Journal of Democracy has been a leading voice in the conversation about government by consent and its place in the world. The Journal is published for the International Forum for Democratic Studies at the National Endowment for Democracy by the Johns Hopkins University Press and full access is available to subscribers through Project MUSE. Twentieth Anniversary Celebration - Journal of DemocracyDemocracy's Past and...Prominent political scientists William A. Galston and...OCT 15, 2015Worth Reading: Journal of Democracy October...The January 2019 edition of the Forum newsletter features...The July 2018 issue features an eight-article cluster...The October 2017 issue features six essays on Russia's autocracy, a debate on...
#NED Welcomes Fall 2015 Fellows#October 28, 2015#Contact: Jane Riley Jacobsen(202) 378-9700jane@ned.orgNED Welcomes Fall 2015 FellowsWASHINGTON—The National Endowment for Democracy (NED) is pleased to announce its Fall 2015 cohort of Reagan-Fascell, Hurford Youth, and Visiting Fellows. In residence are leading democracy activists, practitioners, journalists, and scholars from Egypt, Ethiopia, Hungary, India, Liberia, Nepal, Pakistan, and the Philippines. A list of the 2015–2016 Fellows and their bios can be found here.Named in honor of NED’s two principal founders, former president Ronald Reagan and the late congressman Dante Fascell, the Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellows Program seeks to expand the knowledge, broaden the perspectives, build the capacity, and boost the morale of some of the world’s most committed and courageous democracy activists and scholars. Based at the International Forum for Democratic Studies, NED’s research and publications arm, in Washington, D.C., the program has enabled over 250 fellows from 90 countries to deepen their understanding of democracy and enhance their ability to work toward democratic change.In collaboration with the World Movement for Democracy, the Forum also co-sponsors the Hurford Youth Fellows Program. Funded by the Hurford Foundation and based within the secretariat of the World Movement, the Hurford program seeks to build the leadership skills, enhance the organizational talents, and harness the potential of young democracy advocates from around the world. For media inquiries, please contact Jane Riley Jacobsen at jane@ned.org or at (202) 378-9700.  To apply for a Reagan-Fascell Fellowship, click here. To learn more about Hurford Youth Fellowships, click here. For further information on fellowship opportunities at the National Endowment for Democracy, visit www.ned.org.Dr. Dmitry Dubrovsky most recently served as associate professor of international...Dr. Gubad Ibadoghlu is senior analyst for social and...Youth Activism in Russia:Can a New Generation Make...Ms. Judith February is head of the Institute for Democracy in South Africa’s...
#A New Generation for a New Ukraine#October 27, 2015#Editor’s Note: This piece is adapted from a speech Carl Gershman gave to the Ukrainian Catholic Education Foundation on October 24, 2015 and published in the Atlantic Council.Preparing for tonight’s talk has been an unexpected process of learning and discovery. I had thought I understood Ukraine, having given a number of talks and written articles urging the US government to give greater support to the struggle being waged in Ukraine to build a democratic and lawful society that would join it to Europe and the West. I have said many times, quoting former Swedish Foreign Minister Carl Bildt, that Ukraine is “the epicenter of the global struggle for democracy.” I believe it still is, and that we should do whatever we can to help it win its two-front war to reform the economy and defeat Russian aggression in the east.Click here for article in its entirety. Over the past decade, illiberal powers have become emboldened and gained influence...Read Carl Gershman's op/ed abou the repression of Uyghurs.The January 2018 issue features 7 articles on transnational...The National Endowment for Democracy expresses its...In a new report by the International Forum for Democratic...The International Forum for Democratic Studies at The National Endowment for...
#APSA-CD Newsletter: “Authoritarian Media Control”#October 23, 2015#“Media is rapidly changing form and function, forcing political leaders to quickly adapt their media use and information control strategies to the modern information environment,” write guest editors Dan Pemstein and Brigette Zimmerman about the APSA-CD October 2015 issue, which explores media control strategies employed in non-democracies and transitional regimes.APSA-CD Newsletter is produced three times per year and features 3-5 original articles on democratization, as well as bibliographic information on new research from leading political scientists and academic journals.The International Forum for Democratic Studies serves as the Secretariat for the APSA-Comparative Democratization section, and each issue of APSA-CD is jointly produced by the Forum and the Varieties of Democracy Institute (V-Dem) at the University of Gothenburg. Photo: mkhmarketing/Flickr Creative CommonsApr. 20, 2015Worth Reading: Journal of Democracy April 2015 IssueForum NewsThis...FEB 24, 2014Democracy Ideas: Javier Corrales, "Authoritarianism...Read remarks by NED President Carl Gershman at the...In anticipation of celebrating the 25th anniversary...International Forum for Democratic Studies Executive...For more than two decades now, the majority of the world’s poorest countries...
#Carl Gershman Discusses the State of Democracy in Bosnia and Herzegovina#October 20, 2015#Attending the Sarajevo Youth Summit, National Endowment for Democracy president Carl Gershman gave an interview to Oslobodjenje, Bosnia and Herzegovina’s leading daily, discussing the state of democracy in the country and the world today. NED grantee during the Sarajevo siege, the award-winning Oslobodjenje was named the 1992 Paper of the Year and is the recipient of the 1993 Sakharov Prize.Read interview in its entirety. Remarks delivered by NED President Carl Gershman at the 27th Estoril Political...NED President Carl Gershman's remarks at 2019 NED Democracy...Remarks by NED President Carl Gershman at the Kyiv...NED President Carl Gershman reviewed Blaine Harden’s new book on North Korea...
#Grantee Spotlight: Stevan Dojcinovic and KRIK Earn Global Journalism Award#October 16, 2015#Congratulations to Stevan Dojcinovic, Editor-in-Chief of the Crime and Corruption Reporting Network (KRIK) and National Endowment for Democracy grantee. He was a member of a team that won the international Award for Investigative Journalism awarded by the Global Network of Investigative Journalists.From Democracy Digest:A year-long investigation exposed how Montenegro’s once-untouchable Prime Minister Milo Djukanovic and his family bank are at the center of an unholy alliance of government, organized crime, and business, the Global Investigative Journalism Network reports. Far from a model candidate for the European Union, the probe revealed that Montenegro in effect functions as a mafia state.The Unholy Alliances investigation has now earned Editor-in-Chief Stevan Dojcinovic and his team at Montenegro’s Crime and Corruption Reporting Network (KRIK) the Global Shining Light Award for Investigative Journalism. The prize, awarded by the Global Network of Investigative Journalists, honors investigative journalism conducted in a developing or transitioning country, done under threat, duress, or in the direst of conditions.Read more on Democracy Digest.Ivana Howard, Program Officer for Central and Eastern Europe, shares statement...Grantee News, Spring 2013Issue 1, Volume 1Knock,...Read an article on Cuba's elections by Carl Gershman...Congressmember Karen Bass was re-elected to her second...Democracy Stories producer Joe Rubin follows up with...In her CIMA report, Shanthi Kalathil delves into China’s unprecedented attempts...
#2015 Lipset Lecture:  Andrew Nathan on “The Puzzle of the Chinese Middle Class”#October 16, 2015#FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEDATE: October 16, 2015CONTACT:  Jane Riley Jacobsen (202) 378-9700 or press@ned.orgDr. Andrew J. Nathan of Columbia University unravels the “Puzzle of the Chinese Middle Class” For 12th Lipset Lecture on Tuesday, October 20 at the Canadian EmbassyWASHINGTON, DC – Dr. Andrew J. Nathan will deliver the 12th annual Seymour Martin Lipset Lecture on the “Puzzle of the Chinese Middle Class” at 6pm on Tuesday, October 20 at the Canadian Embassy in Washington, DC. Nathan’s lecture will look at the complexities of the Chinese middle class, its role in Chinese society and politics, and its attitudes about democracy.Sponsored jointly by the National Endowment for Democracy (NED) and the Embassy of Canada, the annual lecture is an important forum for discourse on democracy and its progress worldwide.Andrew J. Nathan is Class of 1919 Professor of Political Science at Columbia University. His teaching and research interests include Chinese politics and foreign policy, the comparative study of political participation and political culture, and human rights.A world-renowned scholar, Professor Nathan is the author or editor of twelve books on China and East Asia, including China’s Transition (1997) and The Tiananmen Papers, co-edited with Perry Link (2001). His articles have appeared in World Politics, Daedalus, The China Quarterly, Journal of Democracy, Asian Survey, The New Republic, The New York Review of Books, The London Review of Books, The Asian Wall Street Journal, the Boston Globe, the International Herald Tribune, and elsewhere. His latest book is China’s Search for Security (co-authored with Andrew Scobell, 2012).The Lipset Lecture is named for one of the great democratic scholars and public intellectuals of the twentieth century. Seymour Martin Lipset’s scholarship on such themes as the conditions for democracy, political parties, voting behavior, extremist movements, ideologies, and public opinion constitutes one of the most prolific, insightful, and widely read bodies of work on democracy ever produced by a single author.This event is open to the media.  Interested journalists should register with NED Public Affairs at 202-378-9700 or press@ned.org.# # #In the January 2016 issue of the Journal of Democracy, NED Vice President for...The September 2018 edition of the Forum newsletter...Alfred Stepan delivered the ninth annual Seymour Martin...Remarks given at the "Two Decades of US-Taiwan Relations"...Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellow Agon Maliqi discussed...2004 Democracy Service MedalPresented to:  Bob Graham, Seymour Martin...
#Stifling the Public Sphere: Media and Civil Society in Egypt, Russia, and Vietnam##Civil society and independent media play crucial roles in effective public policy-making and for improving public discourse. In countries such as Egypt, Russia, and Vietnam, it is clear that encouraging the development of civil society and independent media would help improve the quality of decision making on public policy, address rampant corruption, and more generally tackle the serious social and economic problems that each society faces. However, in these three cases, repression of civil society and the media is not just severe, but getting worse. These regimes’ political priorities compel them to systematically crack down on the very institutions that are essential for meaningful reform and economic progress.To better understand the current environment for media and civil society in three key countries, the International Forum for Democratic Studies has produced “Stifling the Public Sphere: Media and Civil Society in Egypt, Russia, and Vietnam.” This report finds that while state-imposed limits on freedom of expression and association have produced an undeniably grim environment in all three cases, the existence of a powerful underlying desire for better information and more responsive governance remains. Please join us as report authors Zachary Abuza, Sherif Mansour, and Maria Snegovaya discuss how independent voices in these three countries are adapting to resist authoritarian repression.PanelistsModerated byZachary Abuza is a professor at the National War College, where he focuses on Southeast Asian politics. He is the author of Muslims, Politics and Violence in Indonesia (Routledge, 2006), Conspiracy of Silence: The Insurgency in Southern Thailand and its Implications for Southeast Asian Security (US Institute of Peace, 2008), Militant Islam in Southeast Asia (Lynne Rienner, 2003) and Renovating Politics in Contemporary Vietnam (Lynne Rienner, 2001), as well as four monographs. His research focuses on the nexus of politics security, governance, and human rights in Southeast Asia.Sherif Mansour is an Egyptian-American democracy and human rights activist. From 2007 to 2012, he worked at Freedom House, in Washington, D.C., where he managed advocacy trainings for activists from the Middle East and North Africa. Since 2012, he has worked as the Middle East and North Africa program coordinator at the Committee to Protect Journalists. In 2010, Mansour co-founded the Egyptian Association for Change, and he has monitored the Egyptian elections for the Ibn Khaldun Center for Development Studies and worked as a freelance journalist for Al-Kahera newspaper. In 2004, he was honored by the Al-Kalema Center for Human Rights for his work in defending freedom of expression in Egypt, and in 2013 he was named one of the top ninety-nine young foreign policy professionals by The Diplomatic Courier.Maria Snegovaya is a PhD candidate at Columbia University, where her research focuses on the sources of support for populist parties in Eastern Europe. She contributes a biweekly column to Vedomosti, a business daily, and has written for a range of other publications, including The Washington Post, The Huffington Post, The New Republic, and The American Interest. Her articles have been referenced by, among others, David Brooks (New York Times), Andrew Sullivan (The Dish), Bloomberg, The Economist, and the Telegraph. Her main journalistic areas of interest are Russia’s internal and external affairs, the nuances of Russia’s political system, Ukraine’s domestic situation, and the Russian-Ukrainian conflict.1025 F St NW, 8th Floor, Washington, DC 20004 202-378-9700Lunch will be served from 12:00-12:15 pm.Follow @ThinkDemocracy and use #NEDEvents to join the conversation.All cameras and media must register with NED public affairs. Please email press@ned.org to register as a member of the press.
#Report: Stifling the Public Sphere: Media and Civil Society in Egypt, Russia, and Vietnam#October 14, 2015#Civil society and independent media play crucial roles in effective public policy-making and for improving public discourse. But in authoritarian regimes such as Egypt, Russia, and Vietnam—countries aspiring to modernization through rapidly growing Internet access—repression of civil society and the media is not just severe, but getting worse.These regimes’ political priorities compel them to systematically crack down on the very institutions that are essential for meaningful reform and economic progress.In a new report by the International Forum for Democratic Studies, three experts assess the shape and trajectory of civil society and the media, the restrictions that are placed on them, and how these constraints are holding each country back.The environment for media and civil society is undeniably grim in all three of the cases examined in this report, due to official policies that limit the potential of the public sphere. But each of the analysts suggests the existence of a powerful latent desire for better information and more responsive governance.” — Christopher Walker, IntroductionFew issues show the discrepancy between the promise of the 2011 revolution and the reality of repression more clearly than media independence and freedom of speech. Repression against journalists and autonomous outlets helped return Egypt to a system of authoritarian stagnation.”—Sherif Mansour, EgyptThe smothering of media and civil society further weakens the Russian system’s ability to tackle the country’s already-rampant corruption and will shrink incentives to reform the economy. That, in turn, is likely to create even more favorable ground for lawlessness and provide more impunity for corrupt officials.”— Maria Snegovaya, RussiaThe proliferation of technology and the Internet [in Vietnam] may have changed the game and given the private media the potential for rapid expansion, but until the state decides that such outlets are not a threat, they will be systematically targeted.”— Zachary Abuza, Vietnam
#Vilnius Democracy Forum: “Renewing the Transatlantic Commitment to Democracy”#September 25, 2015#Prominent scholars and democracy pracitioners gathered in Lithuania for the Vilnius Democracy Forum on September 14-15, 2015. The event explored challenges to peace and security, freedom, rule of law, and democracy stemming from the current Kremlin leadership’s violation of international order by its wars against Georgia and Ukraine, annexation of Crimea, blackmail and continued punitive policy against Russia’s neighbors, and its subversion of global financial networks.A keynote address was given by Karen Dawisha, author of Putin’s Kleptocracy: Who Owns Russia?, and the event’s first panel discussion was organized around the theme, “How Non-Democratic Regimes/Kleptocracies Work.”Forum Executive Director Christopher Walker spoke about the transnational projection of authoritarian influence on the panel, “Renewing the Transatlantic Commitment to Democracy.” He also moderated a dinner discussion hosted by Linas Linkevičius, Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Lithuania, with participants Ana Maria Gomes, András Simonyi, Sally Painter, and John Lough. The Vilnius Democracy Forum was organized by the Eastern Europe Studies Center with the Institute of International Relations and Political Science at Vilnius University and the Hudson Institute. In addition, the National Endowment for Democracy, Freedom House, and Konrad-Adenauer-Stiftung cosponsored the event, which was streamed live by Delfi TV. For more information about the Vilnius Democracy Forum, including videos from the panel discussions, visit the EESC website.             Photos: Inga Lukavičiūtė/Eastern Europe Studies CenterMelissa Aten of the International Forum for Democratic Studies spoke with Ilya...Utilizing its strong position as a dominant energy...Writing for Foreign Affairs, Christopher Walker, Shanthi...Read Carl Gershman's opening remarks at IRI's Democracy...Authoritarianism Goes Global gained much attention...In this episode of Democracy Ideas, Anne-Marie Brady describes the evolution...
#September 15: International Day of Democracy: Space for Civil Society#September 11, 2015#In honor of International Day of Democracy and its theme, “Space for Civil Society,” we’re sharing some of the inspiring work taking place around the world, supported by NED. Get to know some of our grantees and fellows.Thiat, a Senegalese hip hop artist and former NED Reagan-Fascell Fellow, uses his music to inspire young people across Senegal to be socially and politically engaged in their country’s future. His music sparked a movement which resulted the country’s biggest youth voter turnout in its history for the 2012 presidential election. On #DemocracyDay 2015, NED celebrates Thiat’s commitment to democracy and youth engagement.TWEET / SHARE ON FACEBOOKMuhammad Ali Shah of the Pakistan Fisherfolk Forum, a NED grantee, addresses reporters at a rally for peasant land rights in Sanghar, Sindh. On #DemocracyDay, NED celebrates the Forum’s success in organizing Pakistan’s fishing communities into a vibrant, non-violent social movement that successfully defends the rights of its community.TWEET / SHARE ON FACEBOOKNED grantee La Silla Vacía provided media coverage for citizen protests against the Colombian government’s handling of peace talks with FARC. La Silla Vacía is transforming media in Colombia with its blend of journalistic coverage, think tank-style analysis and interactive user tools. xem bang do On #DemocracyDay, NED celebrates the Centre’s commitment to democracy and freedom of information. Learn more about their work.TWEET / SHARE ON FACEBOOKKabul Pressistan (KP) is a vibrant member of Afghanistan’s independent media community, producing daily programming and providing media access for civil society. Tragically, in 2014, KP founder Sardar Ahmad was murdered in the terrorist attack on the Serena Hotel. With #DemocracyDay 2015, NED remembers Sardar Ahmad and honors Kabul Pressistan’s commitment to democracy and free press.TWEET / SHARE ON FACEBOOKThe Business & Human Rights Resource Centre uses its company response process to encourage companies around the world to address human rights concerns raised by civil society. On #DemocracyDay, NED celebrates the Centre’s commitment to democracy and human rights.TWEET / SHARE ON FACEBOOKNED grantee Guatemala Visible ensures democratic transparency by performing background checks on candidates for the Supreme Court and other government appointments, and reports to the public on their findings. On #DemocracyDay, NED celebrates their commitment to democracy and transparency.  Pictured here: Guatemala’s Supreme Court Justices Selection Commission votes on new members of the Court.TWEET / SHARE ON FACEBOOKThe Zajecar Initiative in eastern Serbia used its small-grants program to support the work of socially-conscious young artists, including a satirical play depicting anti-democratic trends facing the country. On #DemocracyDay 2015, NED celebrates the Zajecar Initiative’s commitment to democracy and positive change.TWEET / SHARE ON FACEBOOKThe Basement Cultural Foundation in Yemen regularly convenes students, activists, intellectuals, and journalists to explore creative solutions to long-term, strategic challenges facing Yemen.TWEET / SHARE ON FACEBOOKRELATED CONTENTTwo dozen years ago, Eddie Jarwolo was a homeless “street kid,” as his native...The International Forum for Democratic Studies and...In March 2015 in New Delhi, the conference “Strengthening...The National Endowment for Democracy is pleased to...
#NED Condemns Prison Sentence of Venezuelan Political Prisoner Leopoldo López#September 11, 2015#WASHINGTON, D.C. – The National Endowment for Democracy (NED) strongly condemns the prison sentence handed down yesterday by the 28th Trial Court of the Metropolitan Area of Caracas, Venezuela, condemning opposition leader Leopoldo López to 13 years and 9 months in prison. “The NED stands in solidarity with Leopoldo Lopez at this very dark moment in Venezuela’s history,” said NED president Carl Gershman.  “His conviction is a judicial travesty, an offense to all people of good will. By convicting Leopoldo López, the Venezuelan government has shown its contempt for the rule of law.  We will not forget Leopoldo López, who is a prisoner of conscience.  His courage is an inspiration to people throughout the world who believe in justice and human dignity.”López was one of the recipients of NED’s 2015 Democracy Award, which was presented May 15 in the U.S. Congress and recognized the sacrifice of Venezuelan political prisoners.  López’s award was accepted by his wife, Lilian Tintori, who said at the time, “To think differently is not a crime, to want a better Venezuela is not a crime, and to protest peacefully is not a crime, it is a right.”The Endowment honored three outstanding young people who are working in extraordinarily...North Korea's Human CatastropheBy Carl GershmanThe...On July 16, before giving out the Democracy Award,...National Endowment for Democracy President Carl Gershman...On July 13, the National Endowment for Democracy presented...Apr 30, 2015Forum Launches New Website: "Resurgent Dictatorship: The...
#Barbara Haig Honored at International Republican Institute’s 2015 Freedom Award#September 11, 2015#On September 9th, International Republican Institute (IRI) honored some of democracy’s greatest heroes at their 2015 Freedom Award. Honorees included: Speaker John A. Boehner, Dr. Mo Ibrahim and Boris Nemtsov. Each have been strong advocates for democracy, freedom and good governance at a time when those ideals are under attack around the world.During the ceremony, Ambassador Mark Green, president of IRI, and Ken Wollack, president of the National Democratic Institute (NDI), also honored Barbara Haig, Deputy to the President for Policy & Strategy, for her 30 years of service at the National Endowment for Democracy.Click here to read full article. 
#Democracy in Decline? A New Book by the Journal of Democracy#August 17, 2015#For almost a decade, Freedom House’s annual survey has highlighted a decline in democracy in most regions of the globe. While some analysts draw upon this evidence to argue that the world has entered a “democratic recession,” others dispute that interpretation, emphasizing instead democracy’s success in maintaining the huge gains it made during the last quarter of the twentieth century.Discussion of this question has moved beyond disputes about how many countries should be classified as democratic to embrace a host of wider concerns about the health of democracy: the poor economic and political performance of advanced democracies, the new self-confidence and assertiveness of a number of leading authoritarian countries, and a geopolitical weakening of democracies relative to these resurgent authoritarians.In Democracy in Decline?, eight of the world’s leading public intellectuals and scholars of democracy—Francis Fukuyama, Robert Kagan, Philippe C. Schmitter, Steven Levitsky, Lucan Way, Thomas Carothers, and editors Larry Diamond and Marc F. Plattner—explore these concerns and offer competing viewpoints about the state of democracy today. This short collection of essays is essential reading for anyone wanting to understand the latest thinking on one of the most critical questions of our era.ORDER THE BOOK: DEMOCRACY IN DECLINE?Larry Diamond is a senior fellow at Stanford University’s Hoover Institution and Freeman Spogli Institute for International Studies, where he directs the Center on Democracy, Development, and the Rule of Law. Marc F. Plattner is the vice president for research and studies at the National Endowment for Democracy. Plattner and Diamond are founding coeditors of the Journal of Democracy and co-chairs of the Research Council of the International Forum for Democratic Studies.
#The West’s Failure of Imagination#August 4, 2015#International Forum for Democratic Studies Executive Director Christopher Walker writes an op-ed on how the democratic world has underestimated the tenacity of the new threats to freedom.“For the democracies to triumph in the long battle against Soviet communism enormous commitment was necessary. Both geopolitical and ideological, the struggle called for military investment, patience and resolve. As crucially, this challenge required a reserve of imagination for understanding and responding to the Soviet challenge with the ideas, media instruments and technology that were part of the democratic world’s natural competitive advantage…”Read the full article on The Wall Street Journal (subscription required).The June 2018 edition of the Forum newsletter explores the latest issue of the... The experts on this panel examined the key issues...The October 2017 issue features six essays on Russia's...Enemies of the State:Pussy Riot and the New Russian...Economic liberalization failed to bring political liberaliation to China, which...
#Russia’s crackdown on civil society shows the regime’s weakness#July 29, 2015#By Carl GershmanNational Endowment for Democracy President Carl Gershman writes an op-end on Russia’s “Undesirable Organization” listRussia’s newest anti-NGO law, under which the National Endowment for Democracy on Tuesday was declared an “undesirable organization”prohibited from operating in Russia, is the latest evidence that the regime of President Vladimir Putin faces a worsening crisis of political legitimacy. Putin may claim that the National Endowment for Democracy and other nongovernmental organizations are “a threat to Russia’s basic constitutional order,” and his labeling them as dangerous enemies, along with the Russian democrats he calls “national traitors,” is his typical way of rallying political support by appealing to nationalist fears and hostilities. But it is the regime itself that has been undermining Russia’s constitutional order through repression, corruption and international aggression; and the pressures are now building toward what many in Russia believe is a major political turning point.Read the full article on The Washington Post.In the January 2016 issue of the Journal of Democracy, NED Vice President for...On June 9, the National Endowment for Democracy honored...Remarks given at the "Two Decades of US-Taiwan Relations"...Enemies of the State:Pussy Riot and the New Russian...In this episode of Democracy Ideas, Peter Pomerantsev discusses modern innovations...
#Statement on Russian Undesirable Organizations#July 28, 2015#FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEDATE:  July 28, 2015CONTACT:  Jane Riley Jacobsen  jane@ned.org, 202-378-9700National Endowment for Democracy Statement on Russian Undesirable OrganizationsWASHINGTON, D.C. – In response to being named an “undesirable organization” by the Russian government, the National Endowment for Democracy has released the following statement:“The law on undesirable organizations is the latest in a series of highly restrictive laws that limit the freedom of Russian citizens. This law, as well as its predecessors, contravenes Russia’s own constitution as well as numerous international laws and treaties.  The true intent of these laws is to intimidate and isolate Russian citizens.  NED remains committed to supporting human rights and fundamental freedoms throughout the world.”# # #  The National Endowment for Democracy deplores the unconscionable medical neglect...From Postcard to Scorecard: Assessing the Quality of...Leading scholars and election experts will mark the...In a new report by the International Forum for Democratic...Democracy Research News is the electronic newsletter...Rodger Potocki, Director, Central Europe and Eurasia, National Endowment for...
#NED’s New Beta Site#July 25, 2015#Since its founding in 1983, the National Endowment for Democracy has remained on the leading edge of democratic struggles everywhere, while evolving into a multifaceted institution that is a hub of activity, resources and intellectual exchange for activists, practitioners and scholars of democracy the world over. We are committed to ensuring the safety of our grantees and partners – both on the ground and digitally. As such, we’ve recently launched a beta version of our website in a more secure environment. In addition to the increased security, we hope you find the site easily navigable and aesthetically pleasing. We invite you to explore the amazing work for democracy and freedom, supported by NED. If you have any questions about the beta site, please email: info@ned.org.197#Statement on Russian Undesirable Organizations#July 28, 2015#FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEDATE:  July 28, 2015CONTACT:  Jane Riley Jacobsen  jane@ned.org, 202-378-9700National Endowment for Democracy Statement on Russian Undesirable OrganizationsWASHINGTON, D.C. – In response to being named an “undesirable organization” by the Russian government, the National Endowment for Democracy has released the following statement:“The law on undesirable organizations is the latest in a series of highly restrictive laws that limit the freedom of Russian citizens. This law, as well as its predecessors, contravenes Russia’s own constitution as well as numerous international laws and treaties.  The true intent of these laws is to intimidate and isolate Russian citizens.  NED remains committed to supporting human rights and fundamental freedoms throughout the world.”# # #  The National Endowment for Democracy deplores the unconscionable medical neglect...From Postcard to Scorecard: Assessing the Quality of...Leading scholars and election experts will mark the...In a new report by the International Forum for Democratic...Democracy Research News is the electronic newsletter...Rodger Potocki, Director, Central Europe and Eurasia, National Endowment for...197#Statement on Russian Undesirable Organizations#July 28, 2015#FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEDATE:  July 28, 2015CONTACT:  Jane Riley Jacobsen  jane@ned.org, 202-378-9700National Endowment for Democracy Statement on Russian Undesirable OrganizationsWASHINGTON, D.C. – In response to being named an “undesirable organization” by the Russian government, the National Endowment for Democracy has released the following statement:“The law on undesirable organizations is the latest in a series of highly restrictive laws that limit the freedom of Russian citizens. This law, as well as its predecessors, contravenes Russia’s own constitution as well as numerous international laws and treaties.  The true intent of these laws is to intimidate and isolate Russian citizens.  NED remains committed to supporting human rights and fundamental freedoms throughout the world.”# # #  The National Endowment for Democracy deplores the unconscionable medical neglect...From Postcard to Scorecard: Assessing the Quality of...Leading scholars and election experts will mark the...In a new report by the International Forum for Democratic...Democracy Research News is the electronic newsletter...Rodger Potocki, Director, Central Europe and Eurasia, National Endowment for...
#2015-2016 Penn Kemble Forum#July 21, 2015#The National Endowment for Democracy is accepting applications for its 2015-2016 Penn Kemble Youth Forum on Democracy.Purpose of the ForumTo provide an opportunity for the next generation of aspiring democracy practitioners and foreign policy professionals to engage in networking, education, and training opportunities with counterparts who share a commitment to international engagement and advancing democracy. Through the forum, which will run this year from September 2015 to June 2016, these young leaders – Penn Kemble Fellows – will engage with leading foreign policy experts, democracy practitioners, civil society activists and former government officials. Associates will also be invited to a range of other events.Penn Kemble’s death in October 2005 robbed the democracy movement of one of its most committed activists and strategists. His political evolution took him from early involvement in the young socialist and civil rights movements, through engagement with the U.S. labor movement in combatting Communism, especially within Central America, to more recent initiatives, including the Transatlantic Democracy Network and Civitas, an international program to promote civic education. He served as deputy and acting director of the United States Information Agency in the Clinton administration, and Secretary of State Albright appointed him U.S. representative to the Community of Democracies. In 2002, Secretary of State Powell appointed him to lead a group to investigate slavery and human trafficking in Sudan.The forum is organized and sponsored by the National Endowment for Democracy with the assistance of a distinguished advisory committee of scholars and practitioners. Learn more about the Endowment’s work and mission here.Requirements and ExpectationsApplicants should be young professionals working on foreign policy, democracy, development or related issues within think tanks, government, and the private or non-profit sectors. A limited number of rising seniors and recent graduates will be considered for participation as well. For participation, applicants need to be based in the Washington, D.C., area. The program is unpaid and nonresidential. Successful applicants are expected to attend at least one monthly seminar (to be held after working hours), although additional events and meetings will be scheduled.Before applying, please consider if your professional and personal obligations will allow you to participate fully. Upon acceptance, you will receive additional information about the program.Application ProcessApplicants are asked to fill out the application form below, which includes the following required documents:All application materials must be submitted in full by 5:00 PM on Friday, August 7th. Applicants will be notified of their selection in late August, and the program will begin in September. Any questions should be directed to Michael Allen.Penn Kemble’s death in October 2005 robbed the democracy movement of one of its most committed activists and strategists. His political evolution took him from early involvement in the young socialist and civil rights movements, through engagement with the U.S. labor movement in combatting Communism, especially within Central America, to more recent initiatives, including the Transatlantic Democracy Network and Civitas, an international program to promote civic education. He served as deputy and acting director of the United States Information Agency in the Clinton administration, and Secretary of State Albright appointed him U.S. representative to the Community of Democracies. In 2002, Secretary of State Powell appointed him to lead a group to investigate slavery and human trafficking in Sudan. 
#Authoritarian Media and the Era of Disinformation#July 16, 2015#In this episode of Democracy Ideas, Peter Pomerantsev discusses modern innovations in Russian propaganda techniques and the effect they have on audiences within and beyond Russia’s borders. In an era of increased interdependence and connectivity, Pomerantsev argues that the Russian authorities have discovered ways to leverage and subvert the openness of the democracies by injecting disinformation into the global information space.Peter Pomerantsev is a Senior Fellow at the Legatum Institute Transitions Forum. He is also an author and documentary producer. His writing appears regularly in the London Review of Books, Atlantic, Financial Times, Foreign Policy and elsewhere, focusing largely, though not exclusively, on 21st century propaganda. Previously, Pomerantsev worked as a consultant on EU and World Bank development projects in the former USSR. He is author of a book about working as a TV producer in Putin’s Russia, Nothing is True and Everything is Possible (2014).Watch more Democracy IdeasWalker: In the modern information age, Russia has managed to maintain meaningful control over news and information. Why don’t we start with the domestic scene in Russia? Here we are in the era of globalization, the internet has proliferated around the world, and yet, when it comes to news about information and politics, it seems as though the system has managed to keep a hold on the news and information that counts. How do you see that?Pomerantsev: Firstly, there is a system of control which is very centralized. So, the first thing that Putin did when he comes to power in 2000 is to seize control over TV. He gets rid of the oligarchs who controlled it and then puts it into the hands of friends or into the hands of the state. There is also a very simple, physical, centralized process where the heads of the TV channels meet in the Kremlin once a week. They are told who is allowed on TV, who is not, what the agenda is, what the framing should be, and what the narratives are. It is all scripted like a movie, in that sense. It is very, very, very centralized. That is really quite old school with that sort of top-down instruction.What is innovative is that they play with narratives and ideology in a more sophisticated way. For example, if communist news was a joke and they just lie about what was going on in the country, and if there was a flat monotone giving you the communist ideology that no one believed in, the approach now is much more subtle. Firstly, they do show bad news, they just frame it in a certain way. The news will start about Putin—because Putin is at the top of the social pyramid—then something bad happening in Russia, but right after that something much worse happening in Ukraine. They do try to include people’s reality, but they have learned its best that they leak the bad news first—they do not want another Chernobyl. The main thing they have done is create almost a simulacrum of debate and discussion. You will have a pseudo left-wing opposition party riling with a pseudo right-wing opposition party in current affairs debating shows. The idea is to make Putin look good by contrast. They have gotten much more sophisticated and supple in their approach, and much more liquid in their approach to ideology.Walker: You have described the domestic scene and innovations that have emerged in recent years. At the same time, the Russian authorities have seen fit to take their media beyond Russia’s borders, and certainly since the annexation of Crimea, people outside of Russia have come to pay more attention to this. What do you think are the most important features of Russia’s international media and what are its aims?Pomerantsev: Primarily it is seen as a weapon. It is not seen as classic public relations or propaganda in the sense of persuasion, public diplomacy, or making a case. It is seen as a weapon—part of the arsenal of foreign policy with which to divide and conquer, sow confusion, and subvert. It is a very different approach to media. The news channels might look like news channels—they even borrow some of the opening credits from a Western show—but their purpose is very different. The heads of Russia’s TV channels talk about themselves as actors in an information war—a psychological war. That is already very different than our understanding of media.I would divide it into two things. One is the action they have on Russian speakers in the near abroad, which is a very intense one. For example, a poll back in 2006 in Estonia, showed that half of Russian speakers in Estonia (that is a fairly large amount of the population) rejected the idea that Estonia was ever colonized by the Soviet Union. They live in a separate reality, and once they live in a separate reality, they can be pushed towards theoretically instigating some sort of revolt or stirring up trouble for the Estonian central government. So that is one part that is a very intense area of concern.Something else the Kremlin is trying to reach out beyond that is to set up international news agencies like Sputnik and Russia Today which broadcast in English, Spanish, German, Arabic and are expanding. Their aim is very different. They try to see what is happening in the West and ride that wave. If there is a bit of anti-EU sentiment in Europe, they will try to fan that as much as they can because they want a weak EU. They certainly do not try to impose anything about Putin, or love of Russia, or loyalty to Russian imperialism as they would in Russian-language. They just try to muddy the waters, spread conspiracies, divide alliances, and so on.Walker: You have described how Russia’s international media has proliferated beyond borders. And this, in some ways, tests some of the fundamental assumptions that many people had at the end of the Cold War—which was that encouraging integration and interdependence would lead to the liberalization of politics in Russia, presumably also the news media. Somehow, this integration has curdled. What do we take from this now that we are in 2015Pomerantsev: Well, it has not just curdled. It has not been a natural process. Ever since the end of the Cold War, Russian military top brass have been looking for an asymmetric approach to getting back at the West. They can never compete with NATO militarily, so they needed to find—and I am trying remember a quote from Marshal Sergeyev, who was a defense minister—“revolutionary paths and asymmetric directions.”Basically, they worked out that the openness of the Western system—that which has made it more efficient than the Soviet one—is a weakness. The fact that there are open markets meant that you could send economic actors in who could mess with other people’s economies—most obviously as with Russia’s control of the energy system in a lot of Europe. The openness of media meant that you could seed disinformation very brazenly into these societies and start trouble inside of them. Even something like NGOs and culture—you could open your church or compatriots’ NGOs in the Baltics and use them to stir discontent. They worked out that our openness is also our great Achilles’ heel.The choice we face—and this is very sharp in the Baltics where they talk about this a lot, and in Ukraine—is do we become less liberal? Do we start shutting off TV channels? Or, do we start throwing out compatriots’ NGOs? But then, have we lost the point of the whole exercise, or do we find our own asymmetric responses to this asymmetric challenge?Walker: You have described this very difficult environment where Russia and other countries with the capacity and intentions to operate beyond their borders are essentially exploiting the open, democratic space. If you were to fast forward five years into the future, given the trajectory of the approach of Russian authorities in the information space, what do you see as the main challenges we should be preparing for in the coming years?Pomerantsev: This is not just Russia. China has something very similar called “the three warfares,” which is a mixture of media, legal, psychological, and economic war to secure control in Southeast Asia.Chinese propaganda in the West is quite soft, with Confucius Institutes—a classic soft power exercise. But, in Asia, it is very, very aggressive. When they wanted to arrest control over a shoal near the Philippines, it was like what Russia does around Ukraine. They launched a psychological attack on the Philippines by putting a military flotilla by their shores. They did a media attack calling the Filipinos “deranged radicals” for protecting their territory. There was a legal attack using some false maps.A lot of states have worked out that this is actually the way forward for conflict in the 21st century—contactless war, endless information, and psychological operations. We are entering an era of disinformation rather than information. We thought the 21st century would be the era of information, but we might be in for the opposite. It is going to be a century of lies, subversion, and psychological manipulation where victory is going to be very hard to define because in the old fashioned war, you came in, planted a flag, and annexed some territory—Crimea is very old school. Most of these battles are not going to be like that at all. They are going to be very intangible. They are going to be fought in battles of the will, in economic subversion. It is going to be very hard to understand who is winning and who is losing. It is going to be a very chaotic century, and we are going to have to build new institutions to deal with it. The Washington Post editorial board discussed the findings of Authoritarianism...The June edition features seven articles written by...In the January 2018 issue of the Journal of Democracy,..."Russia's International Media Poisons Minds""The...Dean Jackson of the International Forum for Democratic Studies spoke with Reagan-Fascell...
#Tibet’s tough road ahead#July 6, 2015#The 80th birthday Monday of the Dalai Lama, Tibet’s spiritual leader, is an occasion to celebrate the life of an extraordinary individual. Since his flight from Tibet to India in 1959, the Dalai Lama has built religious, educational and political institutions to serve and unite the Tibetan community in exile. He has travelled the world to promote the Tibetan cause and expound the teachings of Tibetan Buddhism. And he has formulated a conciliatory “Middle Way Approach” to resolving the Sino-Tibetan conflict that respects China’s sovereignty and territorial integrity even as it seeks to preserve Tibet’s culture, religion and identity. These accomplishments, and the Dalai Lama’s infectious laugh and warmth, explain why he is such a beloved and respected figure throughout the world.As joyful as the occasion of his 80th birthday is, however, it comes at a grim time for the Dalai Lama and the Tibetan freedom movement. The Chinese government has broken off negotiations on Tibet’s status, accusing the Dalai Lama of deceitfully trying to split China and of inciting the 2008 Lhasa uprising, charges that are offensive in addition to being entirely untrue. In April, it issued a white paper saying that talks would not be reopened until the Dalai Lama acknowledged that “Tibet has been an integral part of China since antiquity,” something he cannot agree to since it is contradicted by the historical record and overlooks the fact that Communist China invaded Tibet and illegally annexed it in 1959.Having rejected compromise and dialogue as the way to end Tibetan resistance to its rule, the Chinese government has opted for harsh repression, forced assimilation and the systematic effort to destroy the Tibetan religion, language and distinct national identity. Tibet has been flooded with Han Chinese settlers; monasteries have been placed under direct government control; writers have been arrested and tortured; and more than 2 million nomads have been forcibly resettled in urban areas, destroying their traditional way of life and disrupting the fragile ecosystem of the Tibet Plateau.In response to these and other harsh measures, which the Dalai Lama has called “cultural genocide,” more than 140 Tibetans have immolated themselves in desperate protest against Chinese oppression. This further enraged the regime, which called upon local security forces to “smash disorder, in order to maintain general harmony and stability.” But as 29 dissident Chinese intellectuals said in a call for dialogue with the Dalai Lama, “A country that wishes to avoid the partition of its territory must first avoid divisions among its nationalities.”With the Dalai Lama turning 80, a contest is already developing over his succession. In Tibetan Buddhism, reincarnation is a fundamental tenet, and only the Dalai Lama has the authority to choose whether and through whom he will reincarnate. Yet Beijing has already approved guidelines giving the communist government control of the process. This contest takes place against the background of Chinese authorities having kidnapped in 1995 the 6-year-old boy identified by the Dalai Lama as the incarnation of the Panchen Lama, the second most important figure in Tibetan Buddhism, and replaced him with another boy.The fact that the Chinese-imposed Panchen Lama continues to be categorically rejected by Tibetans should indicate how inflammatory it would be if Beijing tried to impose its choice for the next Dalai Lama. But that’s exactly what it intends to do, except that the Dalai Lama has hinted that he might not reincarnate at all. Zhu Weiqun, a top Communist Party official dealing with Tibet, angrily called the Dalai Lama’s statement “a betrayal” of Tibetan Buddhism and accused him of taking “a frivolous attitude toward his own succession.” Such shameless impudence by a spokesman for an atheistic party would be laughable were his words not the official policy of the Chinese government.The Dalai Lama has said that he will consult with the high Lamas of Tibetan Buddhism, as well as with the Tibetan public and other concerned people, before taking a decision on “whether the institution of the Dalai Lama should continue or not.” These words reflect a spirit of democratic inclusiveness that has characterized his leadership, including his decision to devolve political authority to a democratically elected exile government.It is ironic that at a time of democratic malaise in the West, this “simple Buddhist monk,” as he calls himself, from a remote non-Western civilization has emerged as a fervent defender of democratic values and arguably the world’s leading exponent of nonviolence and religious freedom.As we celebrate the Dalai Lama’s 80th birthday, let us remember the suffering of the Tibetan people and pray that it will come to an end.Christopher Walker and Jessica Ludwig discuss how Russia and China's authoritarian...Johan Lagerkvist is professor of Chinese language and...The International Forum for Democratic Studies' December...In the July 2018 issue of the Journal of Democracy,...In her CIMA report, Shanthi Kalathil delves into China’s...Economic liberalization failed to bring political liberaliation to China, which...
#Telling a Good Story: Censorship, Propaganda, and China’s Media#June 30, 2015#In this episode of Democracy Ideas, Anne-Marie Brady describes the evolution of censorship and propaganda techniques employed by the Chinese authorities in the age of the Internet and globalized media. Despite—or perhaps because of—the emergence of new technologies and the commercialization of formerly state-owned media, Brady argues that the Chinese government has developed new information control strategies that are having an impact within and beyond China’s borders.Prof. Anne-Marie Brady is a specialist in Chinese and polar politics based at the University of Canterbury, Christchurch, New Zealand. She is editor-in-chief of The Polar Journal, and has written nine books and over forty scholarly articles on topics ranging from China’s modern propaganda system, foreigner-management in China and competing foreign policy interests in Antarctica. Her latest monograph examines China’s polar policies.Watch more Democracy IdeasWalker: Anne-Marie, in your highly-regarded book, Marketing Dictatorship, you wrote that since 1989, propaganda has been the lifeblood of the Chinese party-state. Can you explain what you meant by that?Brady: The concept of propaganda as the lifeblood of the Chinese Communist party and their rule is a long-standing one, but it has been really emphasized since the crisis of 1989—the student protests and then the government crackdown. The resurgence of party control in China after that, because the Chinese government has recognized that economic development is important to political stability in China, but so is information management and having a message that unites the population.Walker: For many observers of China the conventional assumption not all that long ago was that economic growth would lead to liberalization— presumably also for the news media—but it hasn’t quite turned out that way. What has evolved in the Chinese media system as the country has developed economically?Brady: The Chinese government has initiated and led the commercialization of the Chinese media. The Chinese media was subsidized up until the early 1990s, but now it’s fully commercialized. Even the state broadcaster, CCTV, receives privileges and monopolies in some situations, but it’s not subsidized.Media specialists in China talk about the media being between the market and the party. They have to serve the market, the readers, and the audience for their material—and they also have to do so within the party guidelines. So, China doesn’t fit that model that we have assumed about how the development of the middle class would put pressure on the government to engage in significant political change. China has managed to create a media which is diverse and that has greatly expanded the range of subjects that can be discussed, but set the boundaries that remain in place of certain no-go zones because, as some of the famous early theorists on propaganda and persuasion like Harold Lasswell, Walter Lippmann, and Edward Bernays all argued, you can’t have successful propaganda without censorship.Walker: It’s also been remarkable that in the age of globalization and the internet’s growth that China has devised an approach that can manage information in a meaningful way and in an environment where there are 600 million internet users. How is it possible that China has managed to maintain meaningful control of information that matters today?Brady: The internet is actually a great tool for a government that wants to increase the level of awareness and understanding of its message because it means that more people can have access to your information than ever before. Also, the technology makes it easier to censor information than ever before. They can know who’s going online and looking at which sites. They can seal off certain areas of the city and say, “You guys don’t get to see New York Times,” whereas if you’re at a university or a hotel, those people get other privileges. So, the internet, for a country like China that has the resources to invest in the relevant software and hardware, is a real boon for what they’re trying to achieve, and they’re actually advising other authoritarian governments on how to do this, and how to do it well.Walker: China has also invested quite a bit beyond its borders and its media, into outlets such as CCTV, Radio China International and Xinhua. How do you see those outlets making an impact in the global information space?Brady: The aim of [these outlets] has always been to promote China—they were first setup to promote what the government called “New China.” The contemporary aim is to improve China’s global image because the Chinese government is very conscious that in many countries, there are very negative and even hostile perceptions of China. The Chinese government feels that it gets a very bad press in the Western media. They have the resources now as a result of their economic growth to do an even better job of getting China’s voice out in the world. Xi Jinping calls it “telling a good story about China.”Walker: Finally, another dimension of China’s international outreach that’s gotten some attention over the years are the Confucius Institutes that have proliferated rapidly across the globe, in the United States, and elsewhere. These are presumably ways to communicate China’s culture. How do you see the Confucius Institutes and their role, especially in the academic settings in which they tend to operate?Brady: They’re often put on a parallel with Alliance Francaise, Goethe Institutes, or the British Council, but there’s a really big difference, and it’s that those are all independent institutions. I think it’s a real problem that the Confucius Institutes are located within universities and schools because they are a part of a deliberate project to shape, guide, and limit perceptions and discussions on China. The whole nature of the university is that it’s an environment where all ideas and points of view can be debated and discussed, and where there aren’t limits except for mutual respect. The Confucius Institutes are having had a deleterious effect on debate about China issues internationally. There is a real need to understand China better in this country and other countries. There is a real need for more people to be learning Chinese. It’s a real shame that the US education system can’t put the money in itself, and then, it has to rely on the Chinese government to fund that expansion of Chinese language programs. 
#APSA-CD Newsletter: “Reconceptualizing Authoritarianism”#June 24, 2015#“[With] challengers to democracy gaining ground in a diverse range of countries such as Thailand, Russia, Hungary, Mali, and Venezuela, the study of democracy and democratization is as important as ever,” note the editors of the APSA-CD June 2015 issue. The June edition features seven articles written by members of the APSA-Comparative Democratization section in a symposium on “Reconceptualizing Authoritarianism.” APSA-CD Newsletter is produced three times per year and features 3-5 original articles on democratization, as well as bibliographic information on new research from leading political scientists and academic journals.The International Forum for Democratic Studies serves as the Secretariat for the APSA-Comparative Democratization section, and each issue of APSA-CD is jointly produced by the Forum and the Varieties of Democracy Institute (V-Dem) at the University of Gothenburg.
#Europe and Azerbaijan: The End of Shame#June 11, 2015#In an article that appears in the Journal of Democracy’s July 2015 issue, Gerald Knaus details how the government of Azerbaijan has neutralized international mechanisms designed to protect human rights by coopting the Council of Europe.Despite an intense crackdown on civil society and independent journalists which began in late 2013, Azerbaijan held the chairmanship of the Council of Europe in 2014, as well as the presidency of the Council’s Committee for the Prevention of Torture. In his article, Knaus examines how Azerbaijan acheived “the end of shame” and the complicit role of the West in this disturbing outcome:“There are two common explanations for this state of affairs [in Azerbaijan]. One explanation focuses on the money that Azerbaijan spends polishing its image: financing statues of members of the presidential family in public parks from Canada to Russia; hosting mega-events in Baku; sponsoring the Spanish champion soccer team Atlético Madrid. The other explanation stresses Azerbaijan’s role as energy supplier. Both explanations fall short of appreciating the strategic genius of Ilham Aliyev’s campaign against human rights… The real secret to Azerbaijan’s influence is something else: The remarkable indifference of European democrats toward their own humanrights institutions. In some European democracies, ignorance and apathy regarding the Council of Europe vie with hostility to any binding international human-rights regime.” Download “Europe and Azerbaijan: The End of Shame” [PDF]Photo Credit: Michał Koziczyński/Creative CommonsRead the Resurgent Dictatorship blog posts, “In Advance of European Games, Azerbaijan Tames Human Rights Watchdogs” and “Azerbaijan’s Two Big Campaigns.”Watch video from the Forum event titled, “Azerbaijan: A Test Case for Democratic Solidarity.” 
#The New Containment: Undermining Democracy#June 3, 2015#Reflecting on George F. Kennan’s 1947 “X-article” which argued for the development of a policy to contain the spread of communism and the Soviet Union’s influence, Forum Executive Director Christopher Walker examines the ways in which modern authoritarian regimes such as China, Russia, and Iran have turned this concept on its head to contain the spread of democracy in an article published in World Affairs‘ May/June issue.“Today, in response to what they identify as critical challenges to their own regime interests, the resurgent authoritarians have marshaled vast resources to counter democratic development around the globe. This evolving “containment of democracy” has three key elements. First, it aims to erode the rules-based institutions that have established global democratic norms and cemented the post–Cold War liberal order. Second, it looks to check the reform ambitions of aspiring democracies and subvert the vitality of young democratic countries. And third, by systematically assailing the established democracies and the central ideas associated with them, it seeks to reshape the manner in which the world thinks about democracy…”Read the article in World AffairsVisit the Forum’s website and blog on “Resurgent Dictatorship: The Global Assault on Democracy”. Read Christopher Walker’s Washington Post op-ed titled, “Authoritarian Regimes are Changing How the World Defines Democracy,” published on June 13, 2014. 
#National Endowment for Democracy Honors Venezuela’s Political Prisoners with 2015 Democracy Award#May 29, 2015#On May 14, the National Endowment for Democracy honored the ongoing struggle of political prisoners in Venezuela with the presentation of its annual Democracy Award to Venezuelan opposition leader Leopoldo López, Caracas mayor Antonio Ledezma, and exiled human rights defender Tamara Sujú. The event was held on Capitol Hill, featuring opening remarks from NED Chairman Martin Frost, former Spanish Prime Minister Felipe González, House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi, House Foreign Committee Chairman Ed Royce,  as well as other leading members of Congress from both sides of the aisle.Lopez and Ledezma were honored in absentia due to their imprisonment. Lilian Tintori and Mitzy Capriles, the respective wives of López and Ledezma, accepted the awards on behalf of their husbands, while Venezuelan lawyer and human rights defender Tamara Sujú accepted her award on behalf of the scores of other political prisoners.“The regime thought that by putting them behind bars, it had succeeded in silencing their calls for a free Venezuela, where the rights of all its citizens are respected by those in authority,” said Frost in his opening remarks. “But because of the deep commitment of these three individuals, whose courage and tenacity, speaking out on behalf of Venezuela’s political prisoners, has brought them here tonight, their voices will be loud and clear. These three individuals will be accepting this year’s Democracy Award on behalf of those unable to join us in person.”González, who is an advisor to the defense in the trials of López and Ledezma, moved the audience by discussing his own personal experiences growing up in Spain under the rule of Francisco Franco.“Half of my life I’ve spent in a dictatorship and the other half in a democracy. So I feel that genetically, I’m more prepared to withstand the struggle against a dictatorship than the loss of a democracy that could become a dictatorship. That’s why I’m so concerned,” said González.A short video was also screened at the event, explaining in detail the situation in Venezuela. The video included exclusive new video messages from numerous loved ones of Venezuelan political prisoners, including Patricia Ceballos, whose husband Daniel is among the most high profile prisoners.The first award, introduced by U.S. Congressman and NED Board Member Peter J. Roskam, was given to Antonio Ledezma, the Mayor of Caracas who has been imprisoned since February of this year. Ledezma is the founder of the political party Alianza Bravo Pueblo, or Fearless People’s Alliance. He was arrested in February 2015 when heavily armed government thugs stormed his office and seized him for an alleged conspiracy to overthrow the state.Receiving the award in her husband’s stead, Ledezma’s wife Mitzy Capriles ended her remarks by reading a poignant excerpt froma letter written by Ledezma just hours after his arrest.“I assume proudly that, despite being trapped physically in a cell, my fighting spirit continues to be free,” wrote Ledezma. “It is free because it does not have to choose between the easy and hard path. It is free because my conscience tells me that I am serving the right cause. Prison is a unique experience, because when you surrender your freedom for a just and noble cause, every second your strength is renewed to keep both your head and your principles high.”NED President Carl Gershman then presented the second award to Tamara Sujú, a renowned human rights defender who lives in exile in the Czech Republic. Sujú is the founder of FUNDAPRES.O.S., an organization that works to provide aid to Venezuelan prisons, the president of Nueva Conciencia Nacional, and the Director of Venezuela’s Ladies In White Foundation. In her remarks, Sujú applauded the members of Congress present at the award for their dedication to Venezuelan human rights and democracy, and called on Latin American governments, as well as the Organization of American States, to stand up against Maduro’s authoritarian regime.“The Venezuelan people cannot take on the irrational army and dangerous government alone,” Sujú said.The 2015 Democracy Award was also a show of bipartisan support for democracy in Venezuela and around the world, as members of congress from opposite sides of the aisle stood on the same stage to promote the cause. As Republican Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen joked, “If you see Ileana Ros-Lehtinen and Nancy Pelosi sharing the stage, that tells you what a great organization the NED is, because they don’t stand for any political parties.” Moments later, Republican Congressman Ed Royce and Democratic Congressman Eliot Engel – Chairman and Ranking Member, respectively, of the House Foreign Affairs Committee – took the stage together.“We speak with one voice on the Foreign Affairs Committee, and that is the voice of freedom,” declared Engel.Engel then paid tribute to Leopoldo López, the leader of the opposition party Voluntad Popular and the former mayor of the Chacao municipality in Caracas, who has been detained in the Ramo Verde prison since February 2014. He was accused of inciting violence during the wave of social protests that took place in early 2014.“…locking up Leopoldo Lopez and subjecting him to the most horrific prison conditions has been a serious miscalculation for the regime, since it has given rise to an international campaign spearheaded by his wife Lilian Tintori,” said Engel. “ Before her husband turned himself in, they were offered a chance to live in exile, but that has never been an option for two fighters for the freedom of their people.”But ultimately, it was the demonstration of the strength of family that made the deepest impression on the audience, as Lilian Tintori and her 5-year-old daughter Manuela accepted the award on behalf of López, who has now been in prison for 15 months.“Manuela is going to take this award to her father in the Ramo Verde prison next week and I know he’ll be proud,” said Tintori. “Soon we’ll have him here, speaking to you and thanking you directly. Strength and faith.”The event was an unmistakable affirmation of commitment to the mission of bringing democracy to Venezuela. In the words of Democratic House Leader Nancy Pelosi, “the annual Democracy Award, with its depiction of the Goddess of Democracy that once stood in Tiananmen Square, is a reminder that our work to promote justice and equality around the world continues.”Beyond recognizing the strength and courage of current political prisoners, speakers at the event – members of Congress in particular – outlined the specific actions necessary to forward the situation in Venezuela. Congressman Royce insisted that “President Maduro should accept calls from across the region, from across the world, to free all political prisoners, and to allow liberty, allow democracy to flourish in Venezuela.” Congressman Engel suggested working with OAS to install a more robust electoral observation system.But at the end of the day, the loudest voice was that of solidarity with López, Ledezma, and 75 other political prisoners. As NED President Carl Gershman in his closing remarks, “Let us all raise our voices and let our friends in Venezuela know that they are not alone in the struggle for human rights and democracy.”
#Forum Launches New Website on the Authoritarian Resurgence#April 29, 2015#An array of illiberal forces has built momentum in recent years that is increasingly challenging democratic norms and the international order. Repressive states such as China, Iran, Russia, Saudi Arabia, and Venezuela are at the cutting edge of domestic repression and are increasingly extering influence beyond their borders in ways that are adversely impacting democracy.To better understand the challenges to democracy posed by these emerging illiberal powers, the International Forum for Democratic Studies launched a new website and blog on “Resurgent Dictatorship: The Global Assault on Democracy.” This website is the product of an ongoing initiative conducted by the Forum which has devoted attention to the leading states that have been at the forefront of the illiberal resurgence, as well as the crucial “soft-power” spheres in which they have been seeking to weaken democracy.Visit “Resurgent Dictatorship: The Global Assault on Democracy”Watch video from the Forum event, “The Authoritarian Resurgence: China, Russia, Saudi Arabia, and Venezuela.”Read articles from the April 2015 and January 2015 issues of the Journal of Democracy on “The Authoritarian Resurgence.”
#If Russia Had Become Democratic….#April 27, 2015#Marc Plattner, NED’s Vice President for Research and Studies and coeditor of the Journal of Democracy, spoke with Levada Center sociologist Denis Volkov about “the essence of the Russian political order.”Denis Volkov: What is your definition of a democratic country?Marc Plattner: What we call “democracy” is really a shorthand for “liberal democracy.” And liberal democracy is a compound thing. It has a “liberal” part and a “majoritarian” part. The “majoritarian” part means free and fair elections. The “liberal” part has to do with protecting the rights of individuals and minorities. Not everything that the majority wants is democratic. In the very first issue of the Journal of Democracy Polish philosopher Leszek Kolakowski wrote an article titled “Uncertainties of a Democratic Age,” in which he says that we would not call it democratic if 51 percent of the population voted to put the other 49 percent to death. The whole structure of liberal democracy is based on the premise that the rights of individuals and minority groups are respected by the majority. But there is always an issue of where you draw the line…  Read the entire interview here
#The Story of a Banyan Tree##1025 F St NW, 8th Floor, Washington, DCThe film will be followed by a discussion with:Dr. Fouzia Saeed Executive Director of Lok Virsa Chairperson of MehergarhRaza Rumi NED Visiting Fellow Pakistani JournalistTauseeq Haider CEO of Black Box ProductionAll cameras and media must register with NED public affairs. Please email press@ned.org to register as a member of the press.While Pakistan suffers from religious extremism, sectarian violence and militancy, the country also has a tremendously rich and ancient spiritual heritage that is often overlooked. Today, more than ever before, many citizens of Pakistan think that it is essential for them to identify, reconnect with and nurture their spiritual roots, to bring cohesion into the society and prevent it from disintegration.The story of a Banyan Tree is a documentary that takes a look at the 9000 years of spiritual heritage of Pakistan with layers of religions and cultures that co-existed and amalgamated into a tolerant society. The essential elements of this heritage are still evident in the everyday lives of the people of Pakistan and could become significant to find solutions to the current state of affairs in the country.The film is produced by Mehergarh: An Institute of Human Rights and Democracy and made by Black Box Sounds, a production company.
#Worth Reading (Apr. 20, 2015): Journal of Democracy April 2015 Issue#April 20, 2015#This issue of Worth Reading features three freely-available articles from the April 2015 Journal of Democracy. Two of the articles in this issue are part of the International Forum for Democratic Studies’ most recent research initiative, “Resurgent Dictatorship: The Global Assault on Democracy,” which explores how leading authoritarian regimes are innovating and collaborating to hinder democratic development within and beyond their borders. The two articles from this series are “Autocratic Legalism in Venezuela,” in which Research Council Member Javier Corrales dissects the Venezuelan regime’s methods of deepening its authoritarianism, and “Forward to the Past in Russia,” in which Research Council Member Lilia Shevtsova predicts deepening political decay within Russia and further aggression from Russia internationally. The final article, “Transitional Justice and its Discontents” by Duncan McCargo, takesa critical look at the field of transitional justice.In “Autocratic Legalism in Venezuela,” Research Council Member Javier Corrales explains how and why the hybrid regime in Venezuela has gradually declined into deeper authoritarianism. Through “use, abuse, and non-use” of the law, he argues that the Venezuelan regime has tightened its grip on power. “Use” entails the passage of legal measures expanding executive power; “abuse” has led to the expansion of regime-friendly public newspapers and broadcasters at the expense of independent media; and “non-use” has enabled wide-scale electoral fraud. The regime has resorted to these tactics against a backdrop of declining electoral competitiveness. It has been aided in these efforts by Chavez’s creation of an “international shield” of neighboring governments unwilling to criticize Caracas, which it maintains using its oil revenues, debt forgiveness, access to investments within Venezuela, and international information platforms (such as Telesur). While this “alliance of tolerance” has successfully deflected criticism of Caracas, Corrales notes that the regime’s efforts to cultivate other Chavista regimes have backfired. Thus, while Maduro is less able to “reshape the outside world,” these strategies may allow him to “stay the course” domestically.In “Forward to the Past in Russia,” Research Council Member Lilia Shevtsova writes that the Russian regime’s primary goal is the continuation of the system of personalized power in that country. Despite attempts to integrate Russia into the global order, Shevtsova says, the Kremlin has resorted to a “conservative revolution at home”; the weaponization of trade, energy, information, and culture; and a strategy of “containment of the West.” Shevtsova does not expect these strategies to arrest Russia’s political and economic decay: they have not yet paid enough dividends to deliver the regime from its troubles, but their costs have begun to accrue in the form of increasing militarization and crippling Western sanctions. Further, she writes, Russia’s international expansionism rests on two contradictory ideas, Russian imperialism and Russian nationalism, which cannot coexist forever. Even so, the regime’s propaganda efforts and lobbying networks have provided cover for its belligerent foreign policy and domestic crackdown on political opposition. Shevtsova predicts that Russia’s politics will continue to decay as a result of personalized rule, a system she believes will not change without major confrontation.In “Transitional Justice and its Discontents,” Duncan McCargo traces the history of transitional justice since the Nuremburg trials, arguing that efforts to depoliticize them have backfired. He argues that both prosecutorial approaches and truth and reconciliation commissions are flawed by their implicit assumption that legal processes are morally superior to political ones. Citing the mixed record of such efforts, McCargo illustrates how ongoing political disputes over the past can limit the legitimacy of transitional justice mechanisms and cause them to bring about more harm than good. He writes that recognizing the centrality of politics to the creation of “fair and enduring” settlements is the key to improving transitional justice processes. Drawing on the work of Judith N. Shklar, McCargo calls for “tribunality,” defined as “the appropriate use of political power to promote fairness” during ongoing negotiations over the past and its consequences. He concludes by recommending a stronger emphasis on public inquiries and historical fact-finding as opposed to legal mechanisms asserting moral superiority over political processes.Worth Reading is a list of featured readings on democracy disseminated semi-monthly by the International Forum for Democratic Studies at the National Endowment for Democracy. Many thanks to Javier Corrales, Duncan McCargo, and Lilia Shevtsova for their research and insight; thanks also to the Journal of Democracy editorial staff for their hard work on this issue. If you have an item you would like considered for inclusion in Worth Reading, please send us an email at ndri@ned.org.
#India 2015: Towards Economic Transformation#April 6, 2015#Thursday, April 16, 20154:00 – 5:30 pm1025 F Street NW, Suite 800, Washington, DC 20004Telephone: 202-378-9675Twitter: Follow @ThinkDemocracy and @LegatumInst and use #GoverningIndia to join the conversation. 
#"If Russia Had Become Democratic…."#April 3, 2015#Marc Plattner, NED’s Vice President for Research and Studies and coeditor of the Journal of Democracy, spoke with Levada Center sociologist Denis Volkov about “the essence of the Russian political order.”Denis Volkov: What is your definition of a democratic country? Marc Plattner: What we call “democracy” is really a shorthand for “liberal democracy.” And liberal democracy is a compound thing. It has a “liberal” part and a “majoritarian” part. The “majoritarian” part means free and fair elections. The “liberal” part has to do with protecting the rights of individuals and minorities. Not everything that the majority wants is democratic. In the very first issue of the Journal of Democracy Polish philosopher Leszek Kolakowski wrote an article titled “Uncertainties of a Democratic Age,” in which he says that we would not call it democratic if 51 percent of the population voted to put the other 49 percent to death. The whole structure of liberal democracy is based on the premise that the rights of individuals and minority groups are respected by the majority. But there is always an issue of where you draw the line… Read the entire interview here
#Grantee Spotlight: Julieta Montaño Receives 2015 International Women of Courage Award#March 30, 2015#Julieta Montaño, NED grantee of the Bolivian NGO Oficina Jurídica de la Mujer (Judicial Office for Women), received the U.S. Department of State’s 2015 International Women of Courage Award.The International Women of Courage Award pays tribute to 10 outstanding women leaders worldwide and recognizes their courage and leadership as they fight for social justice, human rights, and the advancement of women and girls.Montaño has been a NED grantee for more than five years, providing legal assistance to women in cases of rape, sexual assault, and domestic abuse in Bolivia. In total, her organization has provided services to more than 30,000 women in Bolivia and has influenced nearly every piece of legislation that advanced women’s rights over the past 30 years.The Oficina Jurídica de la Mujer’s  advocacy efforts have resulted in stricter penalties for rape and sexual assault, greater protections for reproductive rights, and advances in gender parity laws that helped make Bolivia’s Legislative Assembly one of the most gender equal in the world.Montaño travelled to Washington, DC, in early March to receive her award at the Department of State along with the nine other recipients.Congratulations to Julieta Montaño for her extraordinary work in advancing women’s rights in Bolivia!In Ho Park is the head of North Korean research at...In the wake of the 2013-14 Maidan protests and change...
#11th Annual Lipset Lecture titled “Russia’s Political System 11th Annual Lipset Lecture titled “Russia’s Political System#March 27, 2015#Washington, DC — The Eleventh Annual Seymour Martin Lipset Lecture on Democracy in the World will be held on Wednesday, October 29, 2014, 6:00 p.m., at the Embassy of Canada in Washington, DC, featuring Lilia Shevtsova Washington, DC — The Eleventh Annual Seymour Martin Lipset Lecture on Democracy in the World will be held on Wednesday, October 29, 2014, 6:00 p.m., at the Embassy of Canada in Washington, DC, featuring Lilia Shevtsova.Washington, DC — The Eleventh Annual Seymour Martin Lipset Lecture on Democracy in the World will be held on Wednesday, October 29, 2014, 6:00 p.m., at the Embassy of Canada in Washington, DC, featuring Lilia Shevtsova Washington, DC — The Eleventh Annual Seymour Martin Lipset Lecture on Democracy in the World will be held on Wednesday, October 29, 2014, 6:00 p.m., at the Embassy of Canada in Washington, DC, featuring Lilia Shevtsova.Washington, DC — The Eleventh Annual Seymour Martin Lipset Lecture on Democracy in the World will be held on Wednesday, October 29, 2014, 6:00 p.m., at the Embassy of Canada in Washington, DC, featuring Lilia Shevtsova Washington, DC — The Eleventh Annual Seymour Martin Lipset Lecture on Democracy in the World will be held on Wednesday, October 29, 2014, 6:00 p.m., at the Embassy of Canada in Washington, DC, featuring Lilia Shevtsova. Washington, DC — The Eleventh Annual Seymour Martin Lipset Lecture on Democracy in the World will be held on Wednesday, October 29, 2014, 6:00 p.m., at the Embassy of Canada in Washington, DC, featuring Lilia Shevtsova Washington, DC — The Eleventh Annual Seymour Martin Lipset Lecture on Democracy in the World will be held on Wednesday, October 29, 2014, 6:00 p.m., at the Embassy of Canada in Washington, DC, featuring Lilia Shevtsova.Washington, DC — The Eleventh Annual Seymour Martin Lipset Lecture on Democracy in the World will be held on Wednesday, October 29, 2014, 6:00 p.m., at the Embassy of Canada in Washington, DC, featuring Lilia Shevtsova Washington, DC — The Eleventh Annual Seymour Martin Lipset Lecture on Democracy in the World will be held on Wednesday, October 29, 2014, 6:00 p.m., at the Embassy of Canada in Washington, DC, featuring Lilia Shevtsova.Washington, DC — The Eleventh Annual Seymour Martin Lipset Lecture on Democracy in the World will be held on Wednesday, October 29, 2014, 6:00 p.m., at the Embassy of Canada in Washington, DC, featuring Lilia Shevtsova Washington, DC — The Eleventh Annual Seymour Martin Lipset Lecture on Democracy in the World will be held on Wednesday, October 29, 2014, 6:00 p.m., at the Embassy of Canada in Washington, DC, featuring Lilia Shevtsova.
#Tibet’s leader: Use of force is an entirely wrong method to employ#March 25, 2015#As published in The Tibet Post on Mar. 24th, 2015.Jane Cook, Tibet Post InternationalNew Delhi — The spiritual leader of Tibet His Holiness the Dalai Lama said that ‘truthfulness and transparency will lead to trust and trust yields friendship and the use of force is entirely the wrong method to employ.’His Holiness addressed conference on the theme — ‘Strengthening Democracy in Asia’ to mark the legacy of veteran Indian activist and politician, George Fernandes at the India International Centre in New Delhi.Carl Gershman, President of the National Endowment for Democracy welcomed His Holiness and Sikyong Dr Lobsang Sangay before outlining the aspect of George Fernandes’ life.Anselmo Lee from Korea mentioned that this was the first time the Asian Democracy Network had participated in a meeting in India. He pointed out that this year, 2015, is the 800th anniversary of the Magna Carta, one of the first documents to describe human rights. It is the 70th anniversary of the end of the Second World War and therefore of the establishment of the UN.“On this special occasion, we remember my old friend George Fernandes, who even when he became Defence Minister continued to maintain his simple, self-sufficient way of life. Some of our friends’ attitudes changed once they came to exercise power; not George Fernandes,” said His Holiness.“Fernandes was sympathetic to Tibet and the Tibetan cause right from the start and never missed an opportunity to speak up for them. His face will remain in my heart until I die and I’ll remember him even into my next life,” he added.With regard to the importance of democracy, His Holiness said that “even animals love freedom.” He mentioned the small dog and cat that live with him, who, whenever the door is open, love to run free.It’s in this spirit that, His Holiness said, “it’s really important that we use our human creativity and intelligence. Looking over the audience His Holiness observed that there were hardly any delegates from Africa or from the Arab lands.” His Holiness suggested they be invited in future, noting the great potential waiting to be fulfilled in Africa.“There are real problems in many of the Arab lands at present, but it’s important to recall that even the terrorists and militants, who are causing such alarm, are human beings,” he said. Adding “We need to befriend them and win their trust. The use of force is entirely the wrong method to employ.”“Today, we place too much stress on secondary differences between us like our religious faith or nationality. Here in India the caste system is an obstacle to freedom and democracy. 2600 years ago Buddha Shakyamuni was opposed to caste discrimination. In the context of democracy not only freedom, but also equality are essential.“The Bolshevik revolution opposed and removed the Tsar, but then Lenin became a tyrant like the Tsar before him. Likewise, the Chinese communists successfully opposed the Emperor and powerful warlords, only to become like warlords themselves. Today, the movement for democracy should include people from all over the world standing opposed to the narrow-minded short-sightedness of totalitarianism.”Answering questions from the audience, His Holiness stated that India is the world’s most populated democracy and, because it also has the rule of law, it is the most stable country in its neighborhood. By comparison, Deng Xiaoping saw that China remaining isolated from the rest of the world was not in its interests. He opened up the economy, which has led to millions being lifted out of poverty, but now there are those who say that unless the political system changes too, the economic benefits may be lost.His Holiness said that eventually the Chinese people will resist totalitarianism just as Liu Xiaobo has resisted it. Change will also come because of the thousands of Chinese students who are studying abroad. Carl Gershman thanked His Holiness for remembering Liu Xiaobo, expressing the hope that he will be free to attend a meeting like this in the future and that he will know of the support there is for him.Recalling the drawbacks he had noted in his childhood of too much power in too few hands, His Holiness explained how he had tried to implement reforms. It was not until Tibetans were in exile that he was able to take the steps that eventually culminated in the election of a political leadership and the opportunity for him to retire from such responsibilities.An activist from Hong Kong sought his advice and he replied, saying “No matter how difficult, stand by your principles. In the struggle between the power of the gun and the power of truth, the power of the gun may be stronger in the short term, but in the long term it is the power of truth that prevails. Calmly stick to your beliefs.”A female delegate from Bangladesh asked about the difficulties faced by women, even in democracy. His Holiness recounted how, when the need for leadership emerged in early human societies, physical strength was the main criterion, which led to male dominance. Today, with the development of education there is more equality and it is essential that more women give a lead. Another woman from Pakistan asked about developing greater trust between India and Pakistan and His Holiness encouraged greater people to people exchanges, which are a practical way to overcome the propaganda of vested interests.Carl Gershman introduced Sikyong Dr Lobsang Sangay who was effusive in his appreciation of the democratic changes His Holiness has introduced. He noted that although His Holiness had called him ‘my political boss’, while he would serve for a limited term, His Holiness was spiritual leader for life. He was also full of praise for the consistent support and solidarity George Fernandes showed with Tibetans for decades.During the hot afternoon His Holiness received an enthusiastic welcome at the Gymkhana Club where he spoke about the need to foster both warm-heartedness and intelligence. He told the audience that “All our knowledge came from India. One great Tibetan master in the early 15th century remarked that although Tibet is nominally bright with snow, until the light of knowledge came from India, Tibet had remained in the dark.“You Indians are our gurus and we are the disciples, but I think we have proved to be reliable disciples because we have well preserved the knowledge we gained from you.”He spoke of the need to promote ethics in a secular way, beginning with the acknowledgement that we are all the same as human beings.“If we are honest, truthful and transparent it will lead to trust and trust yields friendship. For social animals like us, friendship is very important. Taking a more ethical approach in this very life will bring self-confidence and inner peace.”In answering questions His Holiness mentioned the Buddha giving his followers the liberty to question his teachings and examine them with reason. He pointed out that the Buddha had given different explanations on different occasions according to the dispositions of those listening to him.Asked about mindfulness he mentioned that mindfulness of the body can be employed to counter attachment, but there is also mindfulness of feelings and mindfulness of the mind. With regard to emptiness of intrinsic existence, it doesn’t mean that things don’t exist at all. He cited an 11th century master who said:“The hand is empty, fire is empty and burning is empty, but if you put your hand in the fire there will be pain.”Questioned about karma His Holiness said that the word karma means action. While some people lazily blame what happens to them on ‘their karma’, they don’t stop to ask who created this karma by doing the action. The answer is that they did. In response to doubt about the presence of ancient values in contemporary society, he said it is true that there is a need to make an effort to preserve positive traditional values in the community.At the end, Club Secretary, Mr Vidya Chibber offered his thanks to His Holiness for coming, praising him as a man of peace and a rare human being. The members who thronged the path to catch a closer glimpse of him as he left seemed to agree. 
#Reagan-Fascell Alumnus Rafael Marques de Morais Wins Journalism Award#March 19, 2015#Investigative journalist Rafael Marques de Morais was one of two awardees selected to receive the Index on Censorship Freedom of Expression journalism award at a ceremony held in London on March 18, 2015.Marques de Morais was a Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellow at the Forum from March–August 2011, during which time he worked on a book, Blood Diamonds: Corruption and Torture in Angola, about systematic human rights abuses against workers in Angola’s diamond mines.On March 24, 2015. he will stand trial in Angola facing charges of defamation and criminal libel made by several Angolan generals implicated in his book for ties to diamond mines where human rights abuses occured. In 2012, Marques de Morais was similarly accused of libel in Portugal by nine Angolan generals, where the case was eventually thrown out by Portugal’s court in 2013.Watch Rafael Marques de Morais speak about “Corruption: An Impediment to Democracy in Angola” at NED on May 12, 2011.Civil Society and the Quest for Democracy in Uganda:Threats and OpportunitiesThe International Forum for Democratic Studiesat the...The National Endowment for Democracy to honor activists...Melissa Aten of the International Forum for Democratic...In light of the rise of populist views in the region, Professor Michael C. Davis...
#The Fighter Pilot and the Great Leader#March 18, 2015# NED President Carl Gershman reviewed Blaine Harden’s new book on North Korea for the Wall Street Journal (March 17, 2015).North Korea is a nuclear-armed rogue state that threatens its neighbors and runs the world’s most repressive political system. Understanding that system is not easy, since the country is closed to international human-rights monitors and independent media. But the testimony of a growing number of defectors—supplemented by satellite photographs of prison camps where hundreds of thousands of people have died from forced labor, starvation and execution—has led a United Nations Commission of Inquiry and many independent analysts to conclude that the North Korean government is guilty of committing crimes against humanity.Blaine Harden’s “The Great Leader and the Fighter Pilot” explains in part how this monstrous system came into being. He focuses on two individuals: the “Great Leader” Kim Il Sung, who rose to absolute power after World War II; and No Kum Sok, a young North Korean fighter pilot who flew his MiG to freedom shortly after the end of the Korean War in 1953. The narrative toggles back and forth between the events of their lives. By contrasting these emblematic figures, Mr. Harden has produced a riveting book that makes the history of North Korea accessible to the general reader.Kim Il Sung came to prominence in 1937, at the age of 25, when he led a guerrilla raid against a small town controlled by the Japanese. It was “a strategically insignificant pinprick,” according to Mr. Harden, and while Kim’s reputation benefited when the Japanese put him on a list of most-wanted Red bandits, he was “an unannounced nobody” when he returned to the Soviet-controlled part of the Korean Peninsula after World War II. He rose to power by selling himself to Stalin as a loyal puppet—a fawning “poodle,” according to Mr. Harden. Stalin considered Kim “a man of no consequence,” and Mao also held him in contempt, viewing him as aggressive, doctrinaire and rash.He was. Kim obsessively pressed Stalin for the green light to invade the South, promising that the Americans wouldn’t fight and that victory would be swift and cheap. Not being able to go to war, he told Stalin’s ambassador in Pyongyang, was taking a “personal toll” on him. Stalin was reluctant, fearing a confrontation with the United States. But following the Communist victory in China and a statement by Secretary of State Dean Acheson (confirmed by Soviet intelligence) excluding the Korean Peninsula from the American defensive perimeter, Stalin concluded that the situation had tilted in favor of war and gave Kim permission to invade, which he did on June 25, 1950.Kim’s troops were initially successful, occupying most of South Korea. But the Americans fought back and turned the tide with devastating effect. Kim lost half his soldiers and most of his Soviet-supplied weapons. U.S. bombers pulverized most of North Korea’s major cities. Kim was rescued by Soviet MiGs, which neutralized U.S. air supremacy, and by the Chinese army, which Mao unleashed to prevent U.S. domination of the Korean Peninsula.Kim had been marginalized and emasculated by the big Communist powers, who ran the war without consulting him. But he survived and turned the devastation to his advantage—85% of the structures in the country had been destroyed in the fighting and as much as one-fifth of the population. He purged political rivals whom he blamed for the calamity; built the gulag and the loyalty-based songbun caste system, allegedly to protect a traumatized society against traitors; and used the sympathy generated by the destruction to milk the “fraternal” Communist countries for reconstruction aid. His introduction of the juche philosophy of self-reliance, according to Mr. Harden, was Kim’s way of telling the world that “North Korea would never again be a plaything of the great powers.” But it was a beggar nation when Kim died in 1994, just before a disastrous famine claimed the lives of more than a million people.No Kum Sok was 16 years old in February 1948, when he heard Kim pledge to a large gathering at a fertilizer plant in Hungnam that he would liberate the entire Korean Peninsula and destroy the “enslavement policies” of the “American imperialists and their stooges.”Mr. No—who lives today in Florida, having emigrated to the United States in 1954—wanted nothing to do with it. He had inherited his father’s sympathy for America. He tried unsuccessfully to escape in 1949 and then quickly learned that to survive he had to pretend to be a fervent Communist. He did that so well that he was admitted to flight school and, at 19, became the youngest fighter pilot on either side of the Korean War.But from the start, his goal was to steal a plane and fly away. That opportunity didn’t come until six weeks after the war ended, but he didn’t hesitate to take it, turning south out of a training loop and landing at an American air base, nearly hitting a U.S. F-86 Sabre jet whose pilot shouted over the radio, “It’s a goddamn MiG!” Mr. No knew that any associates he left behind would be executed, and five of them were, including a lieutenant in the air force who was his best friend. But he never once regretted his decision to escape.The Americans could never understand why Mr. No had fled. They assumed he was responding to a plan they had dreamed up called Operation Moolah that promised $100,000 to the first Communist pilot who defected in a late-model MiG. But when he flew the plane into South Korea, Mr. No knew nothing about the reward. They couldn’t believe that the pilot just wanted freedom.This wasn’t their only mistake. According to Mr. Harden, the American carpet bombing of civilian targets was not just inhuman but also “a propaganda gift” that the Kim family has used until this day to legitimize its rule and inflame anti-Americanism. Still, South Korea is a free society today because the U.S. responded to Kim’s aggression. That’s something worth remembering as America must now decide how to respond to new threats in our troubled world.North Korean defector-turned-activist Ji Seong-ho received the 2017 Oxi Day...Read Carl Gershman's keynote address delivered for...North Korea's Human CatastropheBy Carl GershmanThe...One way or another, a transition in North Korea is...Read the welcome and introductions by Carl Gershman.The democratic struggles that have been waged in this region over the past decades,...
#APSA-CD Newsletter: "The International Dimensions of Authoritarianism"#March 16, 2015#As new research by comparative political scientists increasingly turns to the topic of authoritarian resilience, scholars explored the international dimensions of authoritarianism in the February 2015 issue of APSA-CD Newsletter. The issue featured three articles discussing definitions and classifications of the international dimensions of authoritarianism, as well as two articles exploring the impact of authoritarian regimes in Russia and China on the prospects for democracy in neighboring states.APSA-CD Newsletter is produced three times per year and features 3-5 original articles on democratization, as well as bibliographic information on new research from leading political scientists and academic journals.The International Forum for Democratic Studies serves as the Secretariat for the APSA-Comparative Democratization section, and each issue of APSA-CD is jointly produced by the Forum and the Varieties of Democracy Institute (V-Dem) at the University of Gothenburg.
#“More Equality, More Democracy: The Case of Brazil”#March 9, 2015#By Maria Clara R.M. do Prado, Columnist, Valor Econômico (São Paulo) Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellow, Spring 2014Download the report [PDF]Brazil has long been one of the most unequal countries in the world. In 1989, its Gini coefficient stood at 0.636, the second-worst in the world, ahead only of Sierra Leone. Over the past 15 years, however, the country has made impressive strides toward greater equality. Among the factors behind this success have been public programs aimed at eliminating extreme poverty and allowing the poor to afford middle-class patterns of consumption. After enduring tough economic times, with inflation skyrocketing to unimaginable levels in the 1990s, Brazil was finally able to have a valued currency—the real—in 1994, thus paving the way for development and for policies that would bring a vast number of people out of poverty in the first decade of the 2000s. Despite the recent and substantial decline in inequality, however—the country’s Gini coefficient reached 0.530 in 2012—Brazil still has a long way to go in expanding equal opportunity and promoting democratic inclusion. Photo by Claudia JaguaribeMs. Maria Clara R. M. do Prado is a seasoned journalist, editor, and foreign correspondent covering social, economic, and financial issues across Brazil. She currently serves as a columnist for Brazil’s major economic newspaper, Valor Econômico. In 1994, she was invited to work as communications coordinator for the economic team that drafted Brazil’s Real Plan, the stabilization project responsible for putting an end to hyperinflation. She is the author of A Real História do Real (2005, in Portuguese), a book about the formulation and implementation of the Real Plan. For her sound reporting on monetary stabilization plans, the Board of Brazilian Economists named her “Economic Journalist of the Year” in 2006. During her Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellowship, she explored how distributive economic policies have led to the emergence of a “new” middle class in Brazil and investigated how this development may foster a more inclusive democracy.Watch video from Maria Clara R.M. do Prado’s fellowship presentation on “More Equality, More Democracy: The Case of Brazil,” held at NED on June 26, 2014. 
#The Kim Regime’s Atrocities and the Road Ahead#March 9, 2015#NED President Carl Gershman’s article as it appeared in the World Affairs Journal on March 5th.Last month marked the one-year anniversary of the report of the UN Human Rights Council’s Commission of Inquiry (COI) on human rights in North Korea. UN reports often have very limited impact and resonance. But this report was different. Its impact has already been significant, which is testimony to the quality of the work done by the three commissioners—the Australian judge Michael Kirby, who chaired the body; the Indonesian lawyer and politician Marzuki Darusman, who is also the UN special rapporteur for North Korea; and the Serbian human rights defender Sonja Biserko.The COI heard the testimony of 200 witnesses who had been able to defect from North Korea. While most of the witnesses did not testify publicly for fear of endangering family and associates in North Korea, 80 of them were prepared to give their testimony at public hearings. Their statements were filmed, uploaded on the Internet, and available for viewing around the world.Never before has the international community been able to hear such comprehensive testimony about the suffering of people in North Korea and the terrible crimes committed by the regime there. The main reason for the lack of information on North Korea is that until recently, the country was a completely closed system. There was no literature on the internal nature of the system. There was only a very small handful of exiles. But with the terrible famine in the 1990s and the breakdown of the public distribution system, people began to escape, even though trying to do so is extremely dangerous and can lead to death or harsh detention if someone is intercepted or forcibly repatriated. Over the past 15 years, about 27,000 North Koreans have been able to defect, and they have become an unprecedented source of information about the North Korean system and society. There are also now satellite images of North Korea that are especially valuable in identifying prison camps whose existence is denied by the regime.The COI heard testimony from such defectors, and the 372 pages of detailed findings that accompany its 36-page report are a devastating indictment of the North Korean system. The report documents the regime’s all-encompassing indoctrination machine that is used to incite hatred against official enemies. It describes the state surveillance that follows the private lives of every citizen. It explains the loyalty-based songbun caste system that divides the population along lines of perceived political loyalty and religion, with the lowest castes receiving the harshest treatment and the least food. It doesn’t shrink from providing a detailed account of the North Korean gulag, the system of prison camps where three generations of entire families are sent for the alleged political crime of a single family member. It notes as well that the prison camp population “has been gradually eliminated through deliberate starvation, forced labor, executions, rape and the denial of reproductive rights enforced through punishment, forced abortion and infanticide,” leading to the deaths of hundreds of thousands of prisoners. The report also criticizes China for its “rigorous policy of forcibly repatriating” North Koreans who have crossed the border illegally, and it insists that they be recognized as refugees fleeing persecution. It concludes that the testimony and other information it received “established that crimes against humanity have been committed” in North Korea “at the highest level of the State.”One indication of the report’s influence is that the North Korean government has launched what the human rights specialist David Hawk has called a “furious” diplomatic response, something it has never done before in reaction to criticism of its human rights abuses. Before now, Hawk notes, the regime had maintained that human rights issues were “non-existent” since “there could be no human-rights problems in their people-centered socialist system.” Now, the regime has officially responded to the COI by issuing an eight-page “detailed report” of its own attacking the US for having “fabricated” anti-regime actions in the UN that “are naturally compelling the army and people of the DPRK to launch the toughest counteraction to cope with them.” It has also threatened to expand its nuclear weapons arsenal in response to the report, and it has organized a mass rally in Kim Il-sung Square in Pyongyang, the capital, denouncing the UN resolution and vowing “to mercilessly retaliate against the US and its allies.”Showing that it had been flustered and disconcerted by the COI report, the regime has also launched a charm offensive, sending its foreign minister to the UN General Assembly for the first time in 15 years and a high-level diplomat to Brussels with offers to the European Union of renewed dialogue. It has also received James Clapper, the Obama administration’s director of national intelligence, in Pyongyang, and allowed him to escort two American political prisoners, Kenneth Bae and Matthew Todd Miler, back to the US.What has probably contributed to the North Korean regime’s consternation is that the COI report includes an extensive and comprehensive list of recommendations that open with a call for Pyongyang to “undertake profound political and institutional reforms without delay.” Other recommendations call upon the Security Council to refer the human rights situation in North Korea to the International Criminal Court, and upon China to end its policy of forcibly repatriating North Korean refugees. Overall the recommendations are very ambitious, and three in particular suggest practical ways of expanding international engagement on the issue.The first is the recommendation to form a contact group of donors and other countries with friendly ties to North Korea who would raise human-rights concerns in their ongoing bilateral relations. Scandinavian and other Western countries are obvious candidates for such a group, and they’re doing it already. I believe the main idea is to involve countries from the Global South—Africa, South and Southeast Asia, and Latin America—to show that human rights is not just a concern of the advanced democracies of the West. This would also include encouraging global democracy networks, like the nongovernmental World Movement for Democracy and the intergovernmental Community of Democracies, to raise the issue of North Korean human rights with their members and participants. Countries like Indonesia and Mongolia are natural candidates for such a group, but there are many other countries that could be involved, and the growing interest of the UN in the issue should encourage other countries to participate. The contact group might start by focusing on less politically sensitive issues like better access to educational opportunities for young North Koreans, access to immunization and better health care, and adequate nutrition for pregnant women and children.The second is the recommendation that states in the region should initiate something like a Helsinki process. The idea of developing a collective security system for northeast Asia that, like the one used for Cold War Europe, would include broad provisions for cooperation in humanitarian and other fields and also freer movement of people and information, has been around for some time. Had the six-party talks succeeded, such a process might have evolved out of one of the working groups. South Korea has now proposed the Northeast Asia Peace and Cooperation Initiative, or NAPCI, which is a framework for multilateral security cooperation. It is still at a very early stage, and a realistic next step might be trilateral consultations among South Korea, the US, and Japan, involving both government officials and policy specialists, to consider the feasibility of a collective security system that would have a “basket three” human-rights dimension in addition to provisions dealing with security issues and economic cooperation. It is useful to remember that the initial agenda for the Helsinki process began with discussions among NATO allies over the course of three years. Such a process might also offer a way to make progress on other recommendations of the COI, such as getting China to respect the principle of non-refoulement and stop forcibly repatriating North Korean refugees; and fostering both inter-Korean dialogue and people-to-people dialogue between North Korea and other countries.Finally, there is the recommendation to establish a structure to ensure that those most responsible for crimes against humanity are held accountable for their actions. Transitional justice is a central issue in every transition. It consists of measures both judicial and nonjudicial, including criminal prosecutions and truth commissions, to redress the legacy of massive human rights abuses—to punish those most guilty, to give a truthful and comprehensive accounting of the abuses, and to recognize the rights of the victims. The hope is that by striving for accountability and truth, a society can find a way to rebuild civic trust and the rule of law. Inevitably there will be punishment for crimes committed. But retribution is not enough. There must also be reconciliation.The abuses in North Korea have been so massive that it is hard to imagine what a process of transitional justice would look like. That, of course, is for the future. For now, there are two immediate tasks. First, because the North Korean regime is aware of the growing international concern about the crimes it has committed and may seek to destroy evidence, it is necessary to collect as much evidence and document as many crimes as possible. Second, it is important for those involved in the cause of North Korean human rights to begin studying the issue of transitional justice and to examine how it has been dealt with in post-Communist and other countries that have experienced transitions over the last three decades. Among the people who can provide guidance on how to undertake such an examination are commissioners Darusman and Biserko, each of whom has played a pivotal role in dealing with issues of transitional justice in their own respective countries. Such an examination will help people concerned about North Korea start thinking through a complex issue that will have to be addressed in the future if there is an opening. It would also be useful to find a way to communicate a nuanced and informed understanding of transitional justice to elites in North Korea, among whom there must be people who realize that the current system is doomed but who can’t imagine how they could survive a process of transition.It’s possible to conclude that the system in North Korea is so repressive that such a transition is impossible. But I don’t believe that’s true for three reasons. The first is the stunning success of South Korea, which is an existential rebuke to the North and shows that its system has no future. The second is that the isolation of the society and control system in the North are beginning to break down as a result of a number of factors. Among these are the increased movement of people across the border, the growth of local markets to replace the public distribution system, and greater access to information provided by shortwave radio broadcasts and the growing presence of data storage and messaging devices that are raising the consciousness of people at the grassroots level. The third is that the world—informed by the COI report, satellite photographs of the camps, and many other reports, books, and films—is more aware than ever before of the terrible abuses taking place, leading to new pressures for change that will only grow.The prospect for change in North Korea is enhanced by the role being played by civil-society organizations—many of them South Korean human-rights and free-media groups, and now also organizations run by North Korean defectors. The COI report benefited from the sustained human-rights advocacy of these groups, and it also invigorated these groups, many of which are actually reaching people in North Korea with information about the outside world and messages of hope. The COI report, therefore, not only got the international community to think more about how to build pressure, networks, and coalitions for human rights in North Korea. It also got human-rights and civil-society groups to think about how to strengthen the awareness within North Korea of the outside world and to provide information about the meaning of human rights and the kind of change that the UN is now calling for. If people within North Korea are aware of the growing international pressure for change, they will begin to find ways to express their own views, despite all the dangers and obstacles they face. In the end, change will come not only from outside pressure. It must also come from within.One way or another, a transition in North Korea is coming. The COI has made that more likely by putting the well-being of the people of North Korea on the agenda of the international community, something that’s never been done before. With its recommendations, it has also provided a road map that can be used in helping the people of North Korea achieve freedom. The task now is to keep up the pressure, implement the recommendations, and find ways to connect with the North Korean people. Though the COI has ended its work, the commissioners are all committed to staying engaged and building support for their recommendations. An important process has begun, but the real work lies ahead. Governments, Gatekeepers and Journalists:What's Next in the Struggle...Read an article on Cuba's elections by Carl Gershman...A half-day conference honoring the legacy of Jan Nowak-Jeziorański.Both activists shared their stories during Beyond...The Voice of Freedom: Improving Radio Programs  for the Citizens of North...
#Putin’s War and the Murder of Boris Nemtsov#March 3, 2015#NED President Carl Gershman’s article as it appeared World Affairs on March 2, 2015.The murder last Friday of Boris Nemtsov, as he was crossing a bridge a stone’s throw from the Kremlin, has silenced yet another brave critic of Vladimir Putin, who has turned Russia into such a great danger to itself and to the world. Unlike the journalist Anna Politkovskaya, the human rights defender Natalya Estemirova, the auditor Sergei Magnitsky, and many other martyred critics of official violence in Putin’s Russia, Nemtsov was a political leader, a former deputy prime minister, and elected governor who was once considered a possible heir to the reform president Boris Yeltsin. He offered an alternative vision for Russia, one that Putin has systematically assaulted since he took power in 1999 in a restoration of Kremlin and FSB hard-liners.Looking back over these last 15 years, one can see an inexorable process of the centralization of power in the Kremlin, the repression of human rights and independent journalism, the use of regime propaganda to demonize all opponents and to whip up nationalist hatred, and the projection of harsh military power against alleged internal and foreign enemies, first in Chechnya, then in Georgia, and today in Ukraine. Putin has followed an integrated strategy, using fear of terrorism and foreign enemies as a mobilizing tool to consolidate unchallenged internal control. There is no separation here between conducting foreign wars and repressing internal enemies. Putin is fighting a single war with a single objective—to prop up a system of personalized power, using that power to steal from the people and eliminating every challenge to it.Nemtsov’s liberal vision of a country with human rights, political competition, and the rule of law represented a threat to that system, and his readiness to speak out, to hold demonstrations, and to organize politically took great courage. He also boldly sought to gain international support for Russian democracy. He visited Washington in 2010 to speak in favor of the Magnitsky Act. He came again in 2012 to share information about the enormous corruption taking place in Sochi, his hometown, in connection with preparations for the 2014 Winter Olympics. In the weeks before his murder, he was writing a report on Ukraine charging that Russian troops were fighting alongside separatists in eastern Ukraine, something the Kremlin continues to deny.Speaking in Washington in 2010, Nemtsov said that Magnitsky was killed because of “the atmosphere which we have now in Russia. This is an atmosphere of hatred and intolerance. … If you are for Putin and for his policy, you are okay, you are in the safe position. If you are against, you are an enemy.”That atmosphere is much worse today, with Putin having declared in his Kremlin speech last March, following the annexation of Crimea, that political critics in Russia are “a fifth column” and “a bunch of national traitors.” In effect, Putin was inviting extremists to use violence against dissidents. Nemtsov knew he was in danger and said just weeks before his murder that he worried that Putin would have him killed. But he pressed on, hoping that his status as a former government leader might give him protection. When he was murdered he was planning a large opposition rally on March 1st, a protest that turned into a solidarity march in his memory.Vladimir Markin, the spokesman for the committee appointed by Putin to investigate the murder, has already said that regime opponents may have arranged the killing to give themselves a martyr and to raise their profile. “Nemtsov,” Markin said, “could have been a kind of sacrifice for those who stop at nothing to attain their political ends.” But of course it is Putin and his thugs who will stop at nothing, and we haven’t seen the end of it.On the day after Nemtsov’s murder, the photograph of him lying gunned down on the bridge ran on the front page of the Wall Street Journal, right above a story explaining that the US is limiting the spy-satellite intelligence it provides Ukraine to avoid provoking Russia, and that the Obama administration also remains deeply divided over granting lethal aid a year after it was requested by Kyiv. The contrast between the horror in Moscow and the dysfunction in Washington is revealing and also very disconcerting. The image from the bridge radiates globally because Russia under Putin is a danger not only to Ukraine but to Europe, the US, and the entire international order. The refusal to provide meaningful aid to Ukraine, a country that is fighting for its freedom and territorial integrity against this danger, will only invite more Russian aggression, and it will not end with Ukraine. This is a lesson that has had to be learned too many times in history, and we need to learn it again—quickly—before much more harm is done.The greatest harm is that which is being done to the Russian people themselves. Under Putin, Russia is a country that is destroying itself economically, socially, demographically, morally, and in many other ways. The fact that people like Nemtsov, Politkovskaya, Estemirova, Magnitsky, and many others—the country’s most outstanding citizens, who would be the flower of any normal society—have been killed by elements connected to official structures is a devastating commentary on Russia’s death wish. The additional fact that 22 percent of the adult population would like to leave the country, according to a poll by the Levada Center, is further evidence of the mood of hopelessness in Russia, which will only grow worse with the economic crisis, the war in Ukraine, and now the murder of Nemtsov.The young democratic activist Oleg Kozlovsky wrote on Sunday: “Boris was a very honest person who stood up for truth in spite of all. I have just returned from the mourning march for Boris. It was a huge, orderly, dignified demonstration of solidarity. Thousands after thousands of Muscovites went to show that they were not scared into silence.” But will they be able to save Russia? All of us have a stake in the answer to that question.Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellow Agon Maliqi discussed...Press Start, partially funded by a NED grant, connects...This week, Congress will honor a man who represented the great history of the...
#North Korean Human Rights: The Road Ahead#February 20, 2015#Remarks by NED President Carl Gershman at the CSIS Conference, “North Korean Human Rights: the Road Ahead,” commemorating the one year anniversary of the UN Commission of Inquiry (COI) Report I want to take part of my time today to thank the three Commissioners for their historic report, which has brought the issue of human rights in North Korea to the attention of the entire world. Michael Kirby led the Commission with judiciousness and wisdom, and his immense dedication is evident in the way he is now trying to mobilize support for the Commission’s recommendations, which constitute a comprehensive agenda for action by the international community in the period ahead.  Marzuki Darusman, in his capacity as the U.N. Special Rapporteur for Human Rights in North Korea, played an essential role leading to the creation of the Commission and brought extremely valuable expertise to the inquiry on the workings of the North Korean system. Of course he remains the Special Rapporteur, and his role will be enormously important in implementing the recommendations.  Finally, Sonja Biserko is a very old friend who was a founding member in 1991 of the Center for Anti-War Action in Belgrade, the first and most important peace initiative in Serbia that opposed Milosevic’s nationalist agenda.  She has been a frequent target of threats and even physical attacks, but she has never backed down, as when she as when she testified in 2013 to the International Court of Justice in support of Croatia’s charge of genocide against Serbia.  She’s a woman of courage and valor and a tremendous asset for the cause of human rights in North Korea. It’s something of an understatement to say that the Commission’s recommendations, which open with a call upon the DPRK to “undertake profound political and institutional reforms without delay,” are ambitious.  It’s good to set the bar high, but we all know how difficult any transition in North Korea will be.  I just finished reviewing Blaine Harden’s new book, The Great Leader and the Fighter Pilot, that uses portraits of two figures – Kim Il Sung and No Kum Sok, the young Lieutenant who flew his MiG to freedom shortly after the end of the Korean War – to explain how the monstrous political system of North Korea, with all the grotesque features described in the Commission’s report, came into being. Nothing has really changed in the system that Kim built in the aftermath of the devastation he brought on his country, and it’s possible to conclude that nothing can change.  But I don’t think that’s true for three reasons. The stunning success of South Korea is an existential rebuke to the North and shows that its system has no future; the isolation of the society and control system in the North are beginning to break down; and the world – informed by the Commission’s report, satellite photographs of the camps, and many other reports, books, and films — is more aware than ever before of the terrible abuses taking place, leading to new pressures for change that will only grow.The Commission’s report has many recommendations, and I want to take the few minutes I have left to focus on three of them.  The first is the recommendation to form a contact group of donors and other countries with friendly ties to North Korea who would raise human-rights concerns in their on-going bilateral relations. Scandinavian and other Western countries are obvious candidates for such a group, and they’re doing it already.  I think the main idea is to involve countries from the Global South – Africa, South Southeast Asia, and Latin America – to show that human rights is not just the concern of the advanced democracies of the West.  One place to begin would be to encourage global democracy networks like the non-governmental World Movement for Democracy or the inter-governmental Community of Democracies to raise the issue of North Korean human rights with their members and participants.  Countries like Indonesia and Mongolia are natural candidates for such a group, but there are many other countries that could be involved, and the growing interest of the U.N. in the issue will help. The contact group might start by focusing on less politically sensitive issues like better access to educational opportunities for young North Koreans, access to immunization and better health care, and adequate nutrition for pregnant women and children.The second is the recommendation that states in the region should initiate something like a Helsinki Process. The idea of developing a collective security system for Northeast Asia that, like Helsinki, would include broad provisions for cooperation in humanitarian and other fields and also freer movement of people and information, has been around for some time.  Had the Six-Party Talks succeeded, such a process might have evolved out of one of the working groups.South Korea has now proposed the Northeast Asia Peace and Cooperation Initiative, or NAPCI, which is a framework for multilateral security cooperation. It is still at a very early stage, and a realistic next step might be trilateral consultations among the South Korea, the U.S. and Japan, involving both government officials and policy specialists, to consider the feasibility of a collective security system that would have a Basket-Three human rights dimension.  It is useful to remember that the initial agenda for the Helsinki Process began with discussions among NATO allies over the course of three years. Such a process might also offer a way to make progress on other recommendations of the Commission, such as getting China to respect the principle of non-refoulement and stop forcibly repatriating North Korean refugees; and fostering both Inter-Korean dialogue and people-people dialogue between North Korea and other countries.Finally, there is the recommendation to establish a structure to ensure that those most responsible for crimes against humanity are held accountable for their actions.  Transitional justice is a central issue in every transition.  It consists of measures both judicial and non-judicial, including criminal prosecutions and truth commissions, to redress the legacy of massive human rights abuses – to punish those most guilty, to give a truthful and comprehensive accounting of the abuses, and to recognize the rights of the victims.  The hope is that by striving for accountability and truth, a society can find a way to rebuild civic trust and the rule of law.  Inevitably there will be punishment for crimes committed.  But retribution is not enough.  There must also be reconciliation.The abuses in North Korea have been so massive that it is hard to imagine what a process of transitional justice would look like. That, of course, is for the future. For now, there are two immediate tasks. First, because the North Korean regime is aware of the growing international concern about the crimes it has committed and may seek to destroy evidence, it is necessary to collect as much evidence and document as many crimes as possible.  And second, I think it is important for those involved in the cause of North Korean human rights to begin studying the issue of transitional justice and to examine how it has been dealt with in post-communist and other countries that have experienced transitions over the last three decades.I cannot think of two better people to provide guidance on how to undertake such an examination than Marzuki Darusman and Sonja Biserko, each of whom has played a pivotal role in dealing with issues of transitional justice in their own respective countries.  Such an examination will help people concerned about a better future for North Korea to start thinking through a complex issue that will have to be addressed in the future if there is an opening.  It would also be useful, I think, to find a way to communicate a nuanced and informed understanding of transitional justice to elites in North Korea, among whom there must be people who realize that the current system is doomed but who can’t imagine how they could survive a process of transition.  
#Putin’s Frozen Conflicts#February 19, 2015#By Robert Orttung and Christopher Walker as it appeared on foreignpolicy.com on Feb. 13th. High-level negotiations in Minsk have just produced a new ceasefire in the war in Ukraine. Few believe that the agreement will hold for long. But even if it does, the Western powers are showing little inclination to make efforts to roll back the separatist enclave in the beleaguered country’s east. Russia, meanwhile, shows no real sign of curtailing its debilitating “hybrid war” in support of these separatists.The war in Ukraine is a stark reminder of Russia’s long-established role in destabilizing its neighborhood. The recent separatist offensive there suggests that the Kremlin may be aiming to create a prolonged “frozen conflict” that would keep Ukraine in a state of uncertainty in order to prevent the government in Kiev from achieving desperately needed reforms. Russia’s President Vladimir Putin would be quite pleased if the conflict in Ukraine rumbled on at current levels.Russia’s attempt to subvert Ukraine cannot, however, be seen in isolation.Russia’s attempt to subvert Ukraine cannot, however, be seen in isolation. Its tactics are part of a wider pattern in which the Kremlin uses separatist conflicts as engines for corruption and criminality, and as Trojan horses to block progress in reform-minded countries on Russia’s periphery.Take the case of Georgia, which faces Moscow-inspired disruption in the breakaway territories of Abkhazia and South Ossetia. Moldova is similarly hobbled by Transnistria, another breakaway state sandwiched between Moldova and Ukraine. Russia maintains military bases in all three of these territories. With an eye on deepening its influence, the Kremlin is now working to bind Abkhazia and South Ossetia closer to it by signing strategic treaties with these territories that increase Moscow’s ability to determine their foreign and security policies.During his time in power, Putin has made Russian state sovereignty a central value. But when it comes to Georgia, Moldova, and now Ukraine, Putin is using frozen conflicts to deprive these reform-minded countries of their territorial integrity in order to upset their development and prevent them from joining western institutions. A basic prerequisite for democracy and democratic state-building is control over one’s territory. By undermining its neighbors’ territorial integrity, Russia seeks to distract the governments in Kiev, Kishinev, and Tbilisi from successfully pursuing reforms to reduce corruption and build representative institutions.Instead of concentrating on improving their own governance, these disrupted countries must deal with the charged and emotional issues associated with territorial conflict. Such disputes stir up strong nationalist passions, bringing to the surface deep anger toward Russia and embroiling local politicians in existential political debates. This makes it extremely difficult for reform-minded politicians to govern effectively.Moreover, separatist conflicts serve as Kremlin patronage vehicles, fueling the organized crime and corruption that is the oxygen of Putin’s system of governance. The conflicts provide opportunities for transferring money and power to Russia’s Federal Security Service and its military. These institutions are Putin’s main base of power, and the spoils seized in these territories yield new resources for buying their loyalty at a time when his regime can no longer count on a flood of petrodollars to meet such needs. The Kremlin portrays the annexation of Crimea as a national imperative to safeguard the rights of Russian speakers beyond Russia’s borders. It is better understood as a major asset grab.Because this archipelago of disputed territories is rife with criminality and corruption, it poses a growing security threat to the European Union, which is already wrestling with the threat of Islamist terrorism. In eastern Ukraine, Russian-linked organized crime has been deepening its hold, building on the extensive corruption that flourished in former President Viktor Yanukovych’s home region. The same holds true for Transnistria and South Ossetia, which are hotbeds for organized crime and where these systems are controlled by elites loyal to Moscow. As Russia scholar Mark Galeotti observes, metastasizing organized crime has been a central feature of what could be called “the para-militarization” of eastern Ukraine.The melding of local gangsters with Russian-backed forces has become a fixture of that landscape and the growth of these militarized criminal networks will intensify the challenge that Kiev faces in getting a handle on its own corruption. Such networks will inevitably seek connections with corrupt bureaucrats and crime groups inside Ukraine and work with them to undermine efforts to build up the legitimate economy.Crimea, for its part, has been subjected to mass confiscations, property seizures, and deepening corruption since its annexation by Russia. The peninsula’s de facto leader, Sergey Aksyonov, who was installed by force of Russian guns, has long been linked to criminal networks, which among other things makes him vulnerable to Russian manipulation. In this instance and in the other puppet statelets, Moscow would rather deal with a discredited figurehead it can “own” than a democratically elected leader with an independent power base.Above all else, the Kremlin fears the rise of democratic governments on its borders that could serve as an alternative model to Putin’s “vertical of power.”Above all else, the Kremlin fears the rise of democratic governments on its borders that could serve as an alternative model to Putin’s “vertical of power.” To prevent the emergence of such alternatives on Russia’s periphery, the Kremlin uses the destructive power of separatism, and the corruption and crime that accompanies it, to obstruct reform.With these objectives in mind, it is no coincidence that Russia backs separatist activity against the most promising democratic reformers, all of which are actively pursuing closer relations with the EU: Ukraine, Georgia, and Moldova.Recently released Freedom House findings tell the story. On its 1 to 7 scale of political rights and civil liberties, with 1 being best and 7 worst, Crimea is pegged at a dismal 6.5. Ukraine, by contrast, is a 3, as are the reform-minded countries of Georgia and Moldova. South Ossetia and Transnistria are 6.5 and 6, respectively, making these breakaway territories among the world’s worst performers. The level of democracy is dramatically lower in the separatist regions allied with Russia than it is in the countries from which these areas are trying to secede. One can expect that under Moscow’s tutelage, these territories will become even less accountable and transparent, and will descend further into criminality and corruption.Putin cannot allow the rebels in eastern Ukraine to fail because it would threaten his grip over the security forces and military at home. At the same time, he cannot permit the government in Kiev to succeed because that would show to the people of the Russian Federation a successful democratic alternative. Triggering instability is critical to the Kremlin’s strategy. Ukraine urgently needs to reform its economy and, to some extent, the Russian invasion is serving as a catalyst for the government in Kiev to make needed changes. However, the ongoing conflict in the East serves as a distraction that forces the Ukrainian authorities to devote much of their precious time to war fighting.In Georgia, the government is trying to win back the lost territories by making life in the rest of the country more attractive so that the separatists will eventually lose their appeal to the populations they currently rule. However, the constant harassment from Russia, and the uncertainty created by the fact that the government in Tbilisi does not control its own territory, places enormous obstacles in the way of Georgia’s path to reform. Moldova, for its part, faces the prospect of Moscow-backed provocations in Transnistria that create serious, ongoing challenges for the authorities in Kishinev.Russia’s use of frozen conflicts has grim implications for Ukraine, as well as Georgia and Moldova. In the fight for Ukraine, Putin will strive for a holding pattern, where he retains leverage over Kyiv’s ability to reform, while waiting in the hope that the price of oil will rise.But as the Russian economy continues to deteriorate, Putin’s survival strategy suggests that he will create bigger strategic challenges for the West, using the statelets that pockmark the EU’s eastern flank to export crime and corruption, and to block the emergence of democratic alternatives in his neighborhood. 
#Grantee Spotlight: Azizullah Royesh Top-10 Finalist for the Global Teacher Prize#February 19, 2015#Azizullah Royesh, former NED Reagan-Fascell fellow and current NED grantee in Afghanistan, is one of 10 finalists for the Varkey Foundation’s Global Teacher Prize. The prize is an annual $1 million award given to an innovative and exemplary teacher who has inspired their students and communities.Royesh became a teacher to instill a sense of hope and purpose for Afghan children who were struggling with poverty, war, and life in refugee camps. When he was 10, the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan forced his family to flee to Pakistan. While in Pakistan, he could not keep up his education, so he used any spare time that he had to teach himself. Even though he has only five years of formal education, he has become an inspiring example for education in Afghanistan and around the world.Royesh established the Marefat (which translates to “insight” and “knowledge”) School for Afghan Refugees in Pakistan in 1994. When the Taliban regime fell in 2001, Royesh moved the school to Kabul, Afghanistan. As of 2014, the school had 4,000 students, of which 44% were girls. NED has been supporting Royesh and Marefat initiatives since 2012.If awarded the prize, Royesh will use the funds to renovate and expand the Marefat School. He will also launch a professional teacher training academy so that Marefat’s education model can be expanded and applied throughout the country.Learn more about Royesh and the Marefat School here:Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellow Raza Rumi discussed the broad themes outlined...In 2014, NED mourned the loss of Sardar Ahmad, a widely...Brian Joseph has been named vice president for Asia,...Khaira Arby had been away from home for a long time,...NED will host a discussion of recent developments featuring the insights of...
#Worth Reading (Feb. 11, 2015): Celebrating 25 Years of the Journal of Democracy#February 11, 2015#This issue of Worth Reading features three articles from the January 2015 Journal of Democracy–the Journal’s twenty-fifth anniversary issue–discussing the question, “Is Democracy in Decline?” In an essay by the same name, Journal Co-Editor and Research Council Co-Chair Marc F. Plattner summarizes the different perspectives through which this question has been considered. In “The Myth of Democratic Recession,” Research Council Members Steven Levitsky and Lucan Way argue that democracy’s decline has been exaggerated. Journal Co-Editor and Research Council Co-Chair Larry Diamond responds to Levitsky and Way in his piece, “Facing up to the Democratic Recession.” In “Democracy Aid at 25: Time to Choose,” Research Council Member Thomas Carothers explores the significance of democratic decline for democracy promotion. Finally, in “The Splintering of Postcommunist Europe,” Research Council Member Alina Mungiu-Pippidi examines the different trajectories of Europe’s postcommunist states from a geopolitical perspective.In “Is Democracy in Decline?,” Journal of Democracy Co-Editor and Research Council Co-Chair Marc F. Plattner reviews the Journal’s featured essays on the “Democratic Recession.” Plattner notes that as measured by Freedom House, the trajectory of political freedom is not really in dispute–it has, on average, declined modestly since the turn of the millennium. Despite this modest decline, Plattner writes, deep and widespread doubts about democracy’s future arise from three sources: the growing sense of economic and political fragility in advanced democracies, the rise of confident and assertive authoritarian great powers, and the shifting geopolitical balance between these two camps. Plattner concludes that this sense of decline is not irreversible, noting that democracy has faced moments of crisis before. However, he writes that safeguarding democracy’s future will require its supporters to “summon the resolve and seriousness of purpose needed to reverse” the current period of decline.In “The Myth of the Democratic Recession,” Research Council Members Steven Levitsky and Lucan Way argue that this sense of democratic decline is mistaken. Drawing on four quantitative measures of democracy, Levitsky and Way suggest that declines in freedom have mostly occurred in places where democracy was never really consolidated in the first place. Rather than democratization followed by democratic breakdown, they posit that after the Cold War many countries experienced a moment of “pluralism by default” in which economic crises, political instability, and ethnic violence left the systems in those countries without “even minimal capacity to resist” competitive multiparty elections. As these conditions changed, previously authoritarian regimes regained the capacity to resist democratization, while political space that temporarily opened began to close. Levitsky and Way conclude by noting that “in several important countries [such as Brazil, India, and Chile,] democracy not only survived but strengthened during the 2000s.”In “Facing up to the Democratic Recession,” Journal of Democracy Co-Editor and Research Council Co-Chair Larry Diamond responds to Levitsky and Way’s argument. Diamond identifies four trends–incremental decline in middle-performing countries, deepening authoritarianism in the most repressive states, democratic breakdown in several important emerging-market countries, and dysfunction and self-doubt in the democratic world–which are contributing to “at least [an] incipient decline in democracy.” Using Freedom House data to better illustrate the erosion of political rights and civil liberties worldwide from 2005 to 2014, Diamond makes the case that failure to check corrupt and power-hungry governments, the resurgence of assertive authoritarian powers on the global stage, and the decline of US vitality and self-confidence have contributed to a “democratic recession.” Diamond notes that while democracy has declined over the past decade, there has not been a third “reverse wave” such as those following the first and second waves of democratization. Given this situation, Diamond concludes by advising the international community to focus on consolidating the remaining “third-wave” democracies, “the majority of which remain illiberal and unstable.”In “Democracy Aid at 25: Time to Choose,” Research Council Member Thomas Carothers describes how democracy aid organizations have adapted over the past two and a half decades, summarizes the challenges facing this new type of aid, and suggests that the field of democracy assistance itself is at a crossroads. Carothers sorts democracy assistance into three categories: election monitoring and political party development, strengthening of key state institutions, and support for independent civil society. He argues that over time, all three of these categories have improved their programs by broadening their range of activities and varying their programmatic content according to each country’s unique situation. However, he also notes that a series of new challenges have emerged, including the loss of democratic momentum, increasing recipient government hostility, political dysfunction in Western democracies, and decreased buy-in from political leaders at home. Going forward, Carothers believes that the democracy assistance community will have to choose between limiting its work to “safe” forms of aid or articulating the case for more “principled, persuasive prodemocracy diplomacy” as they adapt to new, risky political realities.In “The Splintering of Postcommunist Europe,” Research Council Member Alina Mungiu-Pippidi explores the role of geopolitics in the divergent transitions of postcommunist Europe. She begins by examining two alternative variables, nationalism and EU accession, finding that both fail to explain Central and Eastern Europe’s differing trajectories. In some countries, including Estonia and Poland, anti-communist nationalism was an essential tool for reform-minded political forces, while in others, such as Romania, nationalist demands from minority groups offered communist parties a “survival strategy.” She finds the effects of EU accession to be similarly varied, with some elites pursuing membership in order to initiate reforms and others seeking to privatize previously public assets. Noting that EU attempts to ‘enforce democracy’ often backfire, Mungiu-Pippidi identifies the geopolitical border demarcating areas of EU and Russian influence as the variable truly responsible for these divergent paths and predicts that political differences across this border will continue to grow.To mark the Journal’s twenty-fifth anniversary, the International Forum for Democratic Studies held a panel discussion in Washington, DC, around the topic of democratic decline on January 29, 2015. Research Council Members Alina Mungiu-Pippidi, Thomas Carothers, Lucan Way, and Steven Levitsky joined Journal Co-Editors and Research Council Co-Chairs Marc F. Plattner and Larry Diamond to discuss this important issue. To watch the panel discussion, click here.You can also read the Center for Independent Media Assistance’s interview with Marc F. Plattner on this subject, available here.The International Forum is also revisiting a small selection of the most influential Journal essays. These include “Democracy’s Third Wave” by Samuel P. Huntington, “What Democracy Is…And Is Not” by Research Council Member Philippe C. Schmitter and Terry Lynn Karl, and “The Rise of Competitive Authoritarianism” by Research Council Members Steven Levitsky and Lucan A. Way.Congratulations to the Journal on twenty-five years at the forefront of democracy research!Worth Reading is a list of featured readings on democracy disseminated semi-monthly by the International Forum for Democratic Studies at the National Endowment for Democracy. Many thanks to Marc F. Plattner, Larry Diamond, Lucan Way, Steven Levitsky, Thomas Carothers, and Alina Mungiu-Pippidi for their insight and analysis; thanks also to the Journal of Democracy staff for their work on the twenty-fifth anniversary issue. If you have an item you would like considered for inclusion in Worth Reading, please send us an email at ndri@ned.org.
#How to Save Afghanistan’s Democracy#February 10, 2015#On September 21, 2014, after months of gridlock following a hotly contested election, Afghan presidential candidates Ashraf Ghani and Abdullah Abdullah signed a power-sharing deal to form a National Unity Government. As part of the arrangement, Ghani became Afghanistan’s president while Abdullah assumed the newly created position of chief executive officer, who heads the cabinet.Crucially, the agreement also requires the establishment of a special electoral reform commission to address allegations of electoral fraud and mismanagement and attempt to rebuild the public’s badly eroded trust in the electoral process. The need for such a plan is obvious, given just how destructive election-related disputes have been. In the last election both candidates claimed to have been victims of fraud, with Abdullah in particular pointing to leaked phone conversations which appeared to show staff of the Independent Election Commission (IEC) colluding with members of Ghani’s campaign to arrange stuffing of ballot boxes.But since the agreement, Afghan officials have done little to make the reform commission a reality. Nor has the international community pushed them to do so — and time is running out. The next parliamentary and district council elections, currently scheduled for May 2015, will elect a majority of the Loya Jirga (the Grand National Assembly), which is responsible for voting on important constitutional amendments. It is imperative that these elections be seen as legitimate, which will require carrying out decisive structural and legal reforms well ahead of time. Realistically, there no longer much of a chance that this is possible, making it advisable to postpone these elections until the summer of 2016. This would allow the Independent Election Committee (IEC) and the Independent Electoral Complaints Commission (IECC) to remedy their technical and institutional failures and would give the new reform commission and the international community time to make the necessary changes.There are four key areas in need of reform. Above all else, the problem of credibility needs to be addressed. Because the election commissions have become increasingly discredited and unable to fulfill their mandates, their current leadership should step down. Ghani and Abdullah, counterbalancing one another’s political motives, must call for a selection committee to appoint new independent and impartial leaders for these crucial electoral bodies. Furthermore, for the sake of pluralism, the government must invite electoral experts, civil society activists, and lawyers to participate as election commission officers.Aside from replacing particular directors, improving credibility will also require redesigning the structure of how the IEC is governed. Among other shortcomings, the current arrangement leads to managerial conflict between two key positions: the chairman and the chief electoral officer (CEO), both appointed by the president. In the law, these positions are ranked equally and have no clearly defined roles. In practice, the chairman has little involvement in supervising electoral operations and by and large shows deference to the CEO. Meanwhile, the accusations of ballot stuffing implicating the CEO are evidence that this position is not being effectively monitored. To improve the work of the commissions, redefining their managerial hierarchy and instituting checks and balances must be a priority. The CEO position, for example, should be downgraded from the ministerial level to the highest civil servant position, where he or she would be obligated to report to senior management on daily electoral operations.Technical improvements to enable the IEC to keep tally of Afghanistan’s voters are the second crucial reform. Although the IEC has conducted full-scale voter registration efforts since 2004, the commission lacks a reliable database to track eligible voters and has difficulty identifying appropriate polling stations. No one knows exactly how many eligible voters there are or where the district boundaries are located. As a result, election operations in Afghanistan are largely based on imprecise estimates.To address this, the key step would be to establish a verified voter registration list. This will not only bolster the transparency and credibility of future elections, but also enable the IEC to carry them out over several days instead of just one. An updated voters list would allow the IEC to conduct elections in phases based on geographical zones, reduce logistical pressures, and increase procedural oversight and transparency. Such changes would also help the Afghanistan National Security Forces to protect election sites from the Taliban and other armed groups without overextending their departmental resources and staff.Because the IEC plans to conduct district council elections for the first time, the third key reform is for the commission to adjust electoral operations for district-based constituencies. Government-related agencies should establish an updated list of district boundaries by mid-2015, which will facilitate fairer and more representative elections on the district level.Fourth, in the longer term, Afghanistan’s electoral system itself must change. In 2004, despite strong recommendations from international experts to institute a system of proportional representation, which ensures strong and representative political parties, Hamid Karzai approved a Single Non-Transferable Voting (SNTV) system, which favors individual candidates. Encircled by powerful leaders of Islamic political parties, Karzai wanted to weaken these parties by alienating them from their constituents.For this reason, Afghanistan’s legislative branch — made up of representatives who, in some cases, were elected with less than one percent of the vote — has remained fractured, dysfunctional, and unrepresentative of its constituents. The next parliamentary elections will be the third time SNTV is practiced in Afghanistan despite delivering the same ineffective outcome each time. A shift to a mixed SNTV-proportional representation system would increase political party and minority representation in Afghanistan’s national and local legislatures. For the Afghan government and international partners, this must be a long-term priority in the second phase of electoral reform after 2016.In light of the 2009 and 2014 electoral crises, the tenuous nature of the current unity government, and the country’s ethnically polarized politics, Afghanistan’s stability depends on better-functioning, more legitimate electoral bodies. The West must urge the current unity government to remain committed to implementing the necessary reforms prior to and after the 2016 Loya Jirga convenes. This is the single most important way to support Afghanistan’s decades-long struggle for democracy.Understanding the Struggle for Power and the Democratization Process in BahrainPowerpoint...Transparency and the Struggle for Accountability in...From Postcard to Scorecard: Assessing the Quality of...The January 2019 edition of the Forum newsletter features...Making Gender Quotas Work: A Case for Doubling the...On July 13, the National Endowment for Democracy presented its annual Democracy...
#Putin's Potemkin Popularity: Op-Ed by Christopher Walker & Robert Orttung#February 4, 2015#Photo credit: Alexander Zemlianichenko/APForum Executive Director Christopher Walker and Research Council Member Robert Orttung examined an often-cited statistic that Russian President Vladimir Putin maintains an 80% approval rating in Russian opinion polls, in an opinion editorial published by the Washington Post."Russian President Vladimir Putin’s popularity appears to resist the laws of political physics. Despite the price of oil sinking below $50 a barrel and the Russian economy falling into a tailspin, Putin’s approval ratings hover above 80 percent, seemingly defying ­gravity.But the numbers should not be taken at face value.Deeper scrutiny is especially important because the more Putin’s sky-high popularity ratings are mentioned, the more they become accepted wisdom. Western news media and political analysts frequently report on them without providing critically needed context…"Read the Full article on the Washington Post.Read "Russia’s Media Autarky Strengthens Its Grip," by Christopher Walker and Robert Orttung in Real Clear World. ::MORERead "Breaking the News: The Role of State Run Media," published by Christopher Walker and Robert Orttung in the Journal of Democracy January 2014 issue. ::MORE
#How Russia Props Up Putin in the Polls#February 2, 2015#By Christopher Walker and Robert Orttung, as it appeared in the Washington Post on January 30Christopher Walker is executive director of the International Forum for Democratic Studies at the National Endowment for Democracy. Robert Orttung is assistant director of the Institute for European, Russian and Eurasian Studies at the George Washington University’s Elliott School for International Affairs.Russian President Vladimir Putin’s popularity appears to resist the laws of political physics. Despite the price of oil sinking below $50 a barrel and the Russian economy falling into a tailspin, Putin’s approval ratings hover above 80 percent, seemingly defying ­gravity.But the numbers should not be taken at face value.Deeper scrutiny is especially important because the more Putin’s sky-high popularity ratings are mentioned, the more they become accepted wisdom. Western news media and political analysts frequently report on them without providing critically needed context.First, Putin’s popularity has been achieved in an information vacuum. An informal set of censorship rules, actively enforced by the Kremlin, makes it virtually impossible to discuss important issues and question official actions through the mass media. Today, independent voices rarely reach into Russian living rooms over the airwaves. In recent months, the government has tightened its noose, pressuring even outlets serving niche audiences, such as the news Web site Lenta.ru, the newspaper Vedomosti and the Moscow station TV Rain. Meanwhile, feverish state propaganda feeds Russian television audiences an unchallenged and delusive flow of information designed to show the country’s leaders in the most positive light while blaming problems on “fascists,” “foreign agents” and “fifth columns.”Second, Putin’s political repression makes certain that only the bravest and most self-sacrificing individuals challenge his rule. Emerging opposition leaders are either removed, smeared or co-opted before they gain sufficient popularity to present a threat. A popularity figure of 80-plus percent simply tells us that Russians cannot conceive of an alternative to Putin.Third, well-educated professionals are emigrating from Russia in massive numbers. According to Rosstat, Russia’s federal statistics service, more than 300,000 people left the country from 2012 to 2013, a migration that tellingly coincides with Putin’s stage-managed return for a third presidential term; the rate of departures climbed even higher after the annexation of Crimea last year. By comparison, approximately 70,000 people left from 2010 to 2011. The cream of Russian society is voting with its feet, leaving a stultifying, ever more corrupt environment for greener pastures that allow them to productively apply their talents.Fourth is the reliance on diversionary tactics, such as the annexation of Crimea, to deflect attention from the country’s deepening economic problems. In the past, the Kremlin has relied on high oil prices to improve living standards. Putin’s sudden embrace of nationalism and territorial expansionism suggests a desperate gambit to keep his numbers from slipping.All of this should tell us something. Today, the Kremlin must work far harder than it has to manufacture regime support. Its fiercer propaganda and harsher repression suggest that the Russian population is less willing to accept Putin. To compensate, the state apparatus has been shifted into overdrive.While the fear and opacity that shrouds the Russian system prevents our knowing the true extent of Putin’s popularity, we do know that the incumbent authorities intend to remain in power indefinitely, regardless of their performance. Ordinary Russians understand this as well. The massive state investments in coercion and manipulation are necessary because the country’s leadership lacks a true democratic mandate.Applying closer scrutiny to Putin’s ratings is critical because Western observers often fall into the trap of viewing Putin the way they would a democratically elected leader. Despite the coercive context that underlies Putin’s ratings, Western media all too often report survey findings blithely, sometimes even with a sense of fascination and awe, suggesting that politicians in democracies would be grateful to enjoy such high levels of support.But this presupposes that envious democratic leaders would want to crush the fundamental elements of democracy, including independent media, civil society and political opposition, to achieve Putin-like “popularity.” We should not accept a definition of popularity that is achieved via truncheon, censorship and propaganda.Putin may well retain the support of certain segments of the Russian population. But given the degree of state-controlled “manufacturing” inherent in generating his “popularity,” uncritical reporting of Putin’s stratospherically high approval numbers does a disservice by feeding into the misguided notion that he is unassailable.Shrewd leaders understand well that the perception of power molds its influence in reality. The Kremlin’s propaganda outlets toil relentlessly to shape this perception for their captive domestic audiences. Observers beyond the Kremlin’s reach do not have this excuse and should take a far more critical view of Putin’s standing.
#Challenges to Stability in Tajikistan: Parliamentary Elections in the Context of Political Islam and Russia’s Economic Crisis##1025 F Street, N.W., Suite 800, Washington, D.C. 20004featuringUmed Babakhanov Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellowwith comments byDavid Abramson U.S. Department of StateandMiriam Lanskoy National Endowment for Democracymoderated bySally Blair International Forum for Democratic StudiesAs Tajikistan approaches the March 1, 2015, parliamentary elections, it has to cope with critical challenges from political Islam and the economic consequences of Western sanctions against Russia. The parliamentary elections will pit the ruling People’s Democratic Party of Tajikistan against its longstanding adversary, the Islamic Renaissance Party (IRPT), a moderate Islamic political party. After suffering protracted civil war in the 1990’s, the Tajik government and the IRPT signed a peace agreement – which made the IRPT the first and only Islamic party in Central Asia permitted to work lawfully and integrated into the political system. A few years later, however, a new crisis of confidence broke out, and the Tajik government has since sought to marginalize the IRPT. After the 2005 and 2010 elections, deemed not free or fair by the OSCE, the IRPT was allowed only two parliamentary seats despite its claims of winning a majority of the vote. Today, the Tajik government continues its effort to discredit the IRPT, portraying them to be as dangerous as the Taliban. Yet suppressing legal and moderate Islamic voices only fosters religious militancy, as more Tajiks join ISIS, and radical sentiments in the country increase. During his presentation, Umed Babakhanov discussed the history of political Islam in Tajikistan and the impact of Western sanctions on Russia on stability in Tajikistan, including the implications of these trends for the 2015 elections. His presentation was followed by comments from David Abramson and Miriam Lanskoy.Umed Babakhanov is founder and editor-in-chief of Asia Plus (news.tj), a leading independent media outlet operating in Tajikistan since 1995. Under Babakhanov’s direction, Asia Plus has emerged as one of the most reliable sources of information in the region, committed to strengthening the independent media sector and promoting dialogue through a range of media, including a news agency, newspaper, FM radio, and a business magazine. In 2012, he launched “For a Tolerant Tajikistan,” an initiative that seeks to foster greater understanding between secular state institutions and the Muslim community through discussions on the role of Islam in society. In 2000, he founded an independent school of journalism and served for ten years as its first chairman. Over the past 25 years, he has been writing for Komsomolskaya Pravda, the Associated Press, the Moscow Times, Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty, Eurasianet, and other media, covering the civil war in Tajikistan and political developments in Central Asia. During his fellowship, Babakhanov is tracing the evolution of political Islam in Tajikistan and examining whether a legal Islamist party will improve the country’s stability or weaken its political foundations. David Abramson is a foreign affairs analyst in the Bureau of Intelligence and Research at the U.S. Department of State. Miriam Lanskoy is the director for Russia and Eurasia at the National Endowment for Democracy. 
#Journal of Democracy October 2014 Issue#January 21, 2015#The October 2014 issue featured a collection of four essays on the “India’s Watershed Vote” which analyze the reasons behind the victory of Bharatiya Janata Party and explore the trajectory of India’s government under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Ivan Krastev analyzes the global protest phenomenon of “movements of distrust” that have now occured in more than 70 countries around the world in “From Politics to Protest,” arguing that while they do not offer political alternative to the status quo, protests do represent an effective strategy of citizen empowerment in the age of globalization.Marcus Mietzner explains“Indonesia’s 2014 Elections: How Jokowi Won and Democracy Survived” and Edward Aspinall discusses the need for reform in Indonesia’s electoral system in “Indonesia’s 2014 Elections: Parliament and Patronage.”This issue also features a collection of three essays that examines “External Influences and Democratization,” including an article by Ghia Nodia describing how autocratic political leaders around the world are pushing back against the global spread of democracy in “The Revenge of Geopolitics.”Explore the complete table of contents for the October 2014 issue. ::VISITFor more than 20 years, the Journal of Democracy has been a leading voice in the conversation about government by consent and its place in the world. The Journal is published for the International Forum for Democratic Studies at the National Endowment for Democracy by the Johns Hopkins University Press and full access is available to subscribers through Project MUSE.
#Celebrating 25 Years of the Journal of Democracy: Is Democracy in Decline?## Hotel Monaco, 700 F Street NW, Washington, DCFeaturingAlina Mungiu-Pippidi Hertie School of Governance (Berlin)Thomas Carothers Carnegie Endowment for International PeaceLucan Way University of TorontoSteven Levitsky Harvard UniversityLarry Diamond Stanford UniversityMarc F. Plattner National Endowment for Democracy
#JoD at 25 Years: "The Rise of Competitive Authoritarianism"#January 15, 2015#In anticipation of celebrating the 25th anniversary issue in January 2015, the Journal of Democracy is revisiting some of the most influential articles on the study of democratization ever published in the Journal.In their Journal of Democracy article, “The Rise of Competitive Authoritarianism” (April 2002), Steven Levitsky and Lucan Way sought to move the debate about democratization beyond the “transition paradigm” by identifying a new type of regime that had emerged in the post-Cold War era.As scholars wrestled with how to classify the wide variety of new regime types located somewhere on the spectrum between liberal democracy and traditional authoritarianism, Levitsky and Way argued that many of these efforts reflected a “democratizing bias” that assumed all these countries were undergoing a prolonged transition to democracy. The hybrid regimes that they categorized as “competitive authoritarian” maintain significant “arenas of contestation” between incumbent leadership and political opposition. Yet incumbents violate the rules of electoral competition so egregiously that these regimes should be viewed as subtypes of authoritarianism rather than democracy. Noting that competitive authoritarian regimes could develop after the decay or collapse of authoritarian regimes as well as through the decay of a democratic regime, Levitsky and Way suggested that competitive authoritarian regimes had the potential to move in either a more democratic or a more authoritarian direction.By highlighting the emergence of this species of hybrid regimes and emphasizing their uncertain trajectories, Levitsky and Way made an important contribution to democracy research. Their terminology has come to be widely accepted among scholars of democracy, and their analysis still remains a starting point for debate about the nature and prospects of these “in-between” regimes.Download “The Rise of Competitive Authoritarianism” [PDF]The Journal of Democracy is the world’s leading publication on the theory and practice of democracy. Since its inaugural issue appeared in January 1990, it has engaged both activists and intellectuals in critical discussions of the problems and prospects of democracy around the world. Today, the Journal is at the center of debate on the major social, political, and cultural challenges that confront both emerging and established democracies. The Journal is published by Johns Hopkins University Press on behalf of the National Endowment for Democracy’s International Forum for Democratic Studies.
#Journal of Democracy January 2015 25th Anniversary Issue#January 15, 2015#To mark the Journal of Democracy’s 25th anniversary issue, the January 2015 edition features a debate among some of the Journal’s most prominent contributing authors exploring the question, “Is Democracy in Decline?”In his introductory essay, “Is Democracy in Decline?”Journal coeditor Marc F. Plattner explains that the Journal felt “compelled to confront head-on the question of whether democracy is in decline.” Plattner notes that the articles in the issue explore two aspects of this question by examining what is happening on the ground in individual countries and by reflecting on how democracy is viewed more generally around the world.Journal coeditor Larry Diamond argues cause for concern in his article,“Facing Up to the Democratic Recession,” that a number of democratic breakdowns over the past decade and measured declines in freedom have coincided with a resurgence of authoritarianism in key countries.Steven Levitsky and Lucan Way debate “The Myth of the Democratic Recession” by reevaluating what they estimate as “excessive optimism” during the post-Cold War 1990s, “in which virtually all forms of authoritarian crisis or regime instability were conflated with democratization.”Francis Fukuyama explores governance challenges in “Why is Democracy Performing So Poorly,” andThomas Carothers analyzes emerging challenges for the democracy assistance community in “Democracy Aid at 25: Time to Choose.” Robert Kagan also explores “The Weight of Geopolitics.”Andrew Nathan discusses “The Authoritarian Resurgence: China’s Challenge,” and Lilia Shevtsova provides an adaption of her 2014 Lipset Lecture on “Russia: Imperialism and Decay.”Explore the complete table of contents for the January 2015 issue. ::VISITFor more than 25 years, the Journal of Democracy has been a leading voice in the conversation about government by consent and its place in the world. The Journal is published for the International Forum for Democratic Studies at the National Endowment for Democracy by the Johns Hopkins University Press and full access is available to subscribers through Project MUSE. 
#NED President’s Four Reasons to Be Optimistic in 2015#January 14, 2015#Article by Carl Gershman as it appeared in the World Affairs Journal on Dec. 31, 2014.The year 2014 has been commonly viewed as a very bad one for democracy, which it was. It was a year in which Russia responded to the democratic revolution in Ukraine by annexing Crimea, invading the eastern part of the country, and challenging the world order established after the Cold War. In 2014 China observed the 25th anniversary of the Tiananmen crackdown by keeping Nobel Peace Laureate Liu Xiaobo in prison and tightening repression against human rights defenders and the Tibetan and Uyghur minorities. In countries as diverse as Egypt, Thailand, Turkey, Nigeria, Hungary, Venezuela, and Azerbaijan the trends were all negative, as they were in Burma where the reform process that started in 2011 came to an end, and in the Middle East where the slaughter in Syria continued and the rise of the Islamic State posed an unparalleled new threat to the region and the world.This is not the first time that the democratic prospect has seemed very bleak. In 1976, on the occasion of the bicentennial of the Declaration of Independence, Daniel Patrick Moynihan wrote that democracy “is where the world was, not where it is going.” Among the developments he was reacting to at the time were the U.S. defeat in Vietnam, the suspension of democracy in India, the imposition of military regimes in many Latin American countries, and the rise of violent African dictators like Idi Amin in Uganda.Moynihan had no way of knowing that political changes taking place in Portugal and Spain at that very moment were launching an historic process that Samuel Huntington would later call “the third wave” of democratization, when the number of democracies in the world more than doubled and democracy came to be seen as the only legitimate form of government. As these changes began to unfold, the pessimism that Moynihan reflected soon gave way to a heady optimism, with many people assuming that the expansion of democracy would continue inexorably.But of course we now know that the new optimism was no more grounded in reality than the old pessimism. Many third-wave transitions failed, autocrats became more adept at controlling democratic movements and advancing their own political agendas internationally, and the countries of the democratic West, which once seemed so triumphant, soon found themselves mired in financial and political crises and unable either to generate popular trust in democratic government or to project with confidence their own democratic values.Might the current pessimism, therefore, also be excessive? Are we blind to emerging democratic possibilities that are not as apparent as the troubles that now assault us from all sides? No one can know for sure. But there are four reasons for thinking that democracy can yet rebound, perhaps not as dramatically as during the third wave, but with enough momentum to reverse the present sense of democratic decline.The first of these reasons is that democracy has progressed against great odds in two critically important countries. In Indonesia, the world’s largest Muslim country, Joko Widodo, a reform-minded leader supported by a broad democratic civic movement, defeated a concerted effort by the militaristic old guard to roll back political change. Even more important was the victory of democracy in Tunisia, where the major political forces were able to overcome deep political and social divisions to build a consensus for a democratic constitution and to choose a new leadership in peaceful parliamentary and presidential elections. Unlike Indonesia, which has great influence in Southeast Asia, Tunisia is a relatively small country. But it is the birthplace of the Arab Spring, and the consolidation of democracy there will create a precedent for democracy in the Middle East, which was by-passed by the third wave. Moreover, not only is Tunisia the first Arab democracy, it also represents an alternative idea in a region that is now dominated ideologically by Islamic radicalism. If it can capture the imagination of intellectuals and young people, the impact of the transition in Tunisia could be far-reaching.The second reason to be cautiously optimistic about democracy’s prospects is that a number of the leading autocracies today face their own severe crises. Russia is now reaping the harvest of its aggression in the form of a collapsing currency, rising inflation, massive capital flight, and shrinking foreign reserves, in addition to significant casualties from the war in Ukraine that the government – fearing a public backlash – has tried to conceal. These problems have now been compounded by the sharp drop in the price of oil and could threaten the survival of Putin’s regime. Other oil-based autocracies are also in trouble, notably Nicolas Maduro’s populist regime in Venezuela, where the economy began to implode even before the catastrophic fall in oil prices; and the Islamic dictatorship in Iran. Economic troubles in dictatorships are not necessarily a good thing, since the regimes could react by escalating international tensions and increasing repression. But they expose the vulnerability of such regimes, and they can sometimes lead to unexpected political openings.The third reason is that the United States is beginning to recover from a period of isolationist withdrawal following the difficult wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. There is no way to know for sure if and to what extent the troubles of 2014 are tied to the vacuums created by the U.S. pullback. But growing popular support for renewed U.S. engagement, as reflected in the bipartisan agreement in the Congress to aid Ukraine, is certainly a reaction to those troubles. It isn’t clear yet if a new consensus will emerge favoring stronger U.S. leadership in the world, which is necessary for democratic progress internationally. But at least that is now a real possibility, and the long-awaited economic recovery after five years of recession is another factor that could bolster American influence abroad.The fourth and final reason for hope is the sustained struggle of democratic movements in countries throughout the world for political and economic accountability, civic renewal, and democratic rights. The victory last February of the Euromaidan movement in Ukraine produced a harsh Russian reaction. But instead of retreating, the movement continued to push forward. If it succeeds in fighting corruption, reforming the economy, and building a new country based on the rule of law, it will help democracy not just in Ukraine but also in Russia and other countries in the region.Even in some of the bleakest situations, such movements have shown relentless determination and persistence. The police cleared the streets after the Umbrella Revolution in Hong Kong, but the movement was not defeated. “We will be back,” read the banners the protesters unfurled as they prepared to leave. And as The Economist wrote, “How long before the youths of Beijing and Shanghai put forth demands of their own?” Such demands are also being put forth by the Cuban Civil Society Open Forum, which declared soon after the announcement on restoring U.S.-Cuban relations that it intended to “expand the role of civil society” and offer the Cuban people “a new narrative, tactics and strategy, and a new language” after more than five decades of totalitarianism.Such movements will be heard from in the years ahead since they consist of activists who represent a new force in international politics: realistic in their goals and strategies, tech savvy and informed, and committed to staying the course in the fight for human rights, freedom of expression, and the rule of law. One of them is Rafael Marques de Morais, an Angolan journalist who has been threatened and tortured, and who will go on trial in March for reporting on official corruption and trafficking in blood diamonds. Speaking in memory of some of his slain colleagues, and also on behalf of journalists and human rights defenders throughout Africa, he extolled “the courage, the leadership, and the solidarity that are required to bring down the walls of fear, and with them the fear-mongers,” and pledged that “No politician, however strong and fearsome, will deter me from doing my job.”Such activists know that they face a long and dangerous struggle, and that even if they succeed in removing a dictatorship, an even more difficult challenge will follow, which is building new institutions, subjecting powerful and corrupt interests to the rule of law, and getting democracy to work and produce real progress for all the people, not just for the elites. The fact that such activists persist in their work, without the benefit of any illusions, is the main reason we can be hopeful about the future. It is critical that we in the established democracies let them know, through meaningful words and actions, that they are not alone. 
#Board of Directors of the National Endowment for Democracy Issues Statement of Solidarity With the People of France#January 9, 2015#At its first meeting of 2015, the Board of Directors of the National Endowment for Democracy (NED) issued a statement of solidarity with the people of France in reaction to the recent terrorist attack in Paris.“At a moment of great shock and sorrow following the attack on the magazine Charlie Hebdo in Paris, at which cartoonists, journalists and police officers were murdered, the Board of Directors of the National Endowment for Democracy stands in solidarity with the people of France. This deadly attack on one media outlet is an attack on freedom of expression everywhere. Intolerance and violence must not be allowed to silence free speech and thus do violence to democracy itself.”The Honorable Martin Frost (Chairman)  :: MORE Polsinelli, Shughart PC The Honorable Vin Weber (Vice-Chair) :: MORE Mercury, LLCAmbassador Robert H. Tuttle (Treasurer)  :: MORE Carl Gershman (President) :: MORE Marilyn Carlson Nelson (Secretary)  :: MORE Carlson Holdings, Inc. Elliott Abrams  :: MORESenior Fellow for Middle Eastern Studies, Council on Foreign Relations The Honorable Karen BassU.S. House of Representatives (D-CA)John Bohn  :: MOREGlobalNet Partners, N.A. LLC James Boland  :: MOREBricklayers and Allied Craftworkers (BAC) The Honorable Norm Coleman  :: MOREAmerican Action Network, American Action Forum Michele Dunne  :: MORE Carnegie Endowment for International Peace Francis Fukuyama  :: MORE Stanford University, Freeman Spogli Institute for International Studies (FSI) Dr. William A. Galston  :: MORE The Brookings Institution Barry Jackson  :: MORE The Lindsey Group and Brownstein Hyatt Farber Schreck Ambassador Zalmay Khalilzad  :: MORE CSIS, Khalilzad Associates Jayne M. Kurzman  :: MORE Davidson, Dawson & Clark, LLP Marne Levine  :: MORE Vice President, Global Public Policy, Facebook Ambassador Princeton N. Lyman  :: MORE Council on Foreign Relations Will Marshall  :: MORE Progressive Policy Institute Azar Nafisi  :: MORE Johns Hopkins University Moisés Naím  :: MORE Carnegie Endowment for International Peace Andrew J. Nathan  :: MORE Columbia University Fred Redmond  :: MORE United Steelworkers Ambassador Stephen Sestanovich  :: MORE Council on Foreign Relations Margaret Spellings  :: MORE President, George W. Bush Presidential Center Melanne Verveer  :: MORE Executive Director, Georgetown Institute for Women, Peace and Security George Weigel  :: MORE Ethics and Public Policy Center Robert B. Zoellick  :: MORE  
#Measuring the Audience:  Why It Matters to Independent News Media##1025 F Street, N.W., Suite 800, Washington, D.C. Featuring:Michelle Foster  CIMA Report AuthorLeon Morse IREX  @irexmediaEvan Tachovsky Media Development Investment Fund @mdiforgModerated by:Mark Nelson Center for International Media Assistance  @MarkNelsonCIMAFollow the event on Twitter: #cimaeventsAudience research is essential for media development as a means to gauge impact, establish data sets across markets and regions, and determine how well the audience is engaging with the content that media produces. Independent news media, which often struggle to build a sustainable business model, need to embrace audience research as the foundation of both their business development and audience development models. Few countries in the developing world, however, have succeeded in creating sustainable audience research institutions or practices. How can the media development community better integrate aspects of audience research into its practice? Are there ways the donor community can better support this type of work? Please join CIMA in launching our report, Measuring the Audience: Why it Matters to Independent News Media and How It Can Contribute to Media Development, and for a panel discussion about the importance and challenges of audience research.
#Burma 2015: The Make or Break Moment for Democratization##1025 F Street, N.W., Suite 800, Washington, D.C. 20004featuringZin Mar AungReagan-Fascell Democracy Fellowwith comments byJohn KnausNational Endowment for Democracymoderated bySally BlairInternational Forum for Democratic Studies Liberalization by the Burmese military regime has been much-lauded on the international stage since its implementation in 2012 by President Thein Sein. However, the military apparatus continues to wield overwhelming influence over the legislative, executive, judiciary, and economic state sectors. Instead of continuing the momentum of liberalization, the state has allowed religiously-based ultranationalist movements to gain power and infringe on human rights, especially women’s rights. Distortion of nationalist ideas and manipulation of religious chauvinism have become serious challenges confronting further democratization in Burma. In this situation, democrats, civil society organizations, and women’s rights advocates face serious hurdles in the shrinking space allowed to them. In her presentation, Zin Mar Aung evaluated the current challenges and opportunities for Burmese civil society to counter military influence and the rising tide of Buddhist ultra-nationalism. She offered recommendations for domestic and international action on these issues and strategies for empowering a new generation of leadership. Her presentation was followed by comments from John Knaus.Ms. Zin Mar Aung is co-founder of RAINFALL, a Yangon-based organization that empowers women in Burma through human-rights trainings and awareness-building at the community level. A former prisoner of conscience, she was arrested in 1998 for participating in the student-led democratic uprisings against Burma’s military regime and released eleven years later. In 2009, she formed a self-help group for ex-political prisoners and co-founded the Cultural Impact Studies Club to promote the idea that democracy is compatible with Asian culture. In 2011, she co-founded the Yangon School of Political Science, a NED-funded institution that educates young activists in the values of democracy. For her efforts to strengthen women’s rights, democratic values, and conflict resolution in Burma, she was awarded the International Women of Courage Award in 2012 by then–Secretary of State Hilary Clinton. During her fellowship, Zin Mar Aung is developing a roadmap for women’s political empowerment in Burma, with recommendations for how women may participate effectively in political life. She is also producing a training manual as a resource for women’s organizations in Burma. John Knaus is senior program officer for Southeast Asia and North Korea at the National Endowment for Democracy.
#The Crackdown on Independent Voices in Azerbaijan##Featuring:Altay Goyushov Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellow, National Endowment for Democracy Professor of Turkic History, Baku State UniversityKenan Aliyev Director, RFE/RL’s Azerbaijani ServiceAudrey Altstadt Fellow, Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars Professor of History, University of Massachusetts, AmherstCatherine Cosman Senior Policy Analyst, U.S. Commission on International Religious FreedomThomas O. Melia (invited) Deputy Assistant Secretary of State, Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights and Labor United States Department of StateWith comments by:Miriam Lanskoy Director of Russia and Eurasia Programs, National Endowment for DemocracyModerated by:Christopher Walker Executive Director, International Forum for Democratic StudiesThe current crackdown on independent voices in Azerbaijan is unprecedented. Although the country has long held a poor record on human rights, the precipitous decline in recent months has halted the work of Azerbaijan’s brave and resilient civil society. Arrests, detentions, and media smear campaigns against independent activists have become a regular occurrence, and now have reached the country’s most prominent journalists and human rights defenders. This harsh rhetoric and the larger crackdown on civil society set a dangerous precedent and are reverberating throughout the region. Azerbaijan’s deepening repression is being watched carefully by other regimes in the neighborhood that are beginning to implement similarly repressive measures in their own countries.There is more than one motivation behind this crackdown, which is a response to domestic and international factors. There were several instances of grass roots protests over social issues in the winter of 2013 that demonstrated considerable popular frustration with corruption and social inequality. In the presidential election in the fall of 2013 the opposition united behind a single candidate demonstrating a degree of organization and cohesion among opposition forces that had not existed in the past. The crackdown against civil society started as a response to these factors but grew in intensity over the course of 2014. The anti-corruption revolution in Ukraine has contributed to the Azerbaijani government’s continued sense of insecurity and the growth of Russian propaganda and influence in the region provides legitimation for Azerbaijan’s crackdown. Although Azerbaijan continues to work closely with some European institutions, especially the Council of Europe, international institutions have largely proven unwilling or unable to hold Azerbaijan to its democratic commitments. Calls for sanctions against Azerbaijan from intergovernmental organizations, civil society organizations, and prominent individuals are mounting as Azerbaijan fails to fulfill its international commitments. In this panel, Altay Goyushov, Kenan Aliyev, Audrey Altstadt, Catherine Cosman, Thomas Melia, and Miriam Lanskoy examined the domestic and international dimensions of this crackdown, as well as the implications it will have for the future of Azerbaijan, and the region.Twitter: Follow @ThinkDemocracy and use #NEDEvents to join the conversation.1025 F. Street, N.W., Suite 800, Washington, D.C. 20004Audrey Altstadt is a professor of history at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst. She is also currently a fellow at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars’ Kennan Institute, where she is working on a project entitled “Why Unblooms the Hope: Frustrated Democracy in Post-Soviet Azerbaijan.” She is the author of dozens of articles on Azerbaijan’s history, politics, and culture, and of the books The Azerbaijani Turks: Power and Identity Under Russian Rule (1992) and Culture Wars in Soviet Azerbaijan, 1920-1940 (forthcoming).Kenan Aliyev is the director of RFE/RL’s Azerbaijani Service. Prior to joining RFE/RL in 2004, Aliyev worked in Washington, DC as a broadcaster for Voice of America and was also a regular contributor for BBC World Service. Aliyev served as a Baku-based reporter for RFE/RL’s Russian Service and for the local Azadliq newspaper before he immigrated to the US in 1997.Catherine Cosman is a senior policy analyst at the U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom, where her areas of responsibility include the countries of the former Soviet Union, East and Central Europe, and Western Europe. She previously served on the staff of the U.S. Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe, Human Rights Watch, the Free Trade Union Institute, and RFE/RL.Altay Goyushov is professor of Turkic history at Baku State University. He is currently a Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellow at the National Endowment for Democracy, where he is working on a project entitled “Secularism and Religion in Azerbaijan: Lessons from the First Azerbaijani Republic of 1918–1920.” He is also one of the leaders of the “Republican Alternative” (“REAL”) movement, which promotes liberal democratic concepts and values, and a frequent commentator on local and international media on issues relating to religion, history, and civil society in Azerbaijan. He has lectured at the Baku-based Free Thought University and has held prestigious fellowships and visiting professorships in Italy, France, and the United States.Miriam Lanskoy is the director of Russia and Eurasia programs at the National Endowment for Democracy. She has published articles in the Journal of Democracy, The SAIS Review of International Affairs, and The Fletcher Forum of World Affairs and has appeared on the PBS Newshour to discuss developments in the region. She has also testified in Congress. Her book, The Chechen Struggle: Independence Won and Lost, co-authored with Ilyas Akhmadov was published in 2010.Thomas O. Melia is Deputy Assistant Secretary of State in the Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights and Labor (DRL). He is responsible for DRL’s work in Europe, including Russia and the South Caucasus, and the countries of the Middle East and North Africa region. In addition to serving as Head of U.S. Delegation to several meetings of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), Melia was the U.S. co-chair of the Civil Society Working Group in the U.S.-Russia Bilateral Presidential Commission. Mr. Melia came to DRL in 2010 from Freedom House where he was Deputy Executive Director for five years. Earlier, Mr. Melia held senior posts at the National Democratic Institute including, from 1998 to 2001, Vice President for Programs. From 1999 to 2010, he taught at Georgetown University and The John Hopkins University’s School of Advanced International Studies.
#How Civil Society Engagement Can Strengthen Democracy in Zimbabwe##1025 F Street, N.W., Suite 800, Washington, D.C. 20004featuringwith comments bymoderated byIn the aftermath of the 2013 elections, which confirmed Robert Mugabe’s grip on power and shut out the highly divided opposition, Zimbabwean civil society has been struggling to find relevance. The unified social forces that gave rise to the democratization agenda in 1999 are severely depleted, and the impetus for reform ran its course with the adoption of a new constitution. Due to several factors there has been a decline in the strength of organized labor and the Movement for Democratic Change. For civil society organizations, the primary question is how they can best engage with one another and other actors, including the government, in the current political context. In his presentation, Zimbabwean human rights lawyer Arthur Gwagwa evaluated CSOs’ democracy work both in collaboration with and outside of political party structures, and the ways in which this work has either resisted or perpetuated authoritarianism. He offered recommendations for continued domestic engagement and strategies for enhancing international support of Zimbabwean democracy. His presentation was followed by comments by Jeffrey Smith.Arthur Gwagwa is a human rights attorney who heads the Zimbabwe Human Rights NGO Forum, based in London. In the nineties, he was among the first lawyers to offer pro bono representation to victims of rights violations through the Zimbabwe Lawyers for Human Rights network. In 2002, he went into exile in the United Kingdom, when his work representing the politically persecuted and dispossessed brought him to the adverse attention of the authorities. While based in the United Kingdom, Mr. Gwagwa has represented refugees at the Refugee Legal Centre and has continued advancing the cause of human rights and democracy in Zimbabwe. During his fellowship, he is working on a policy document on how enhancing civil society engagement can strengthen democratic culture and electoral integrity in Zimbabwe.Jeffrey Smith is a senior program officer at Robert F. Kennedy Human Rights, in Washington, D.C.
#Ebola’s Impact on Women and Children in Sierra Leone: Why Accountability Matters##The Ebola outbreak in West Africa has exposed an ineffective healthcare system, poor governance, and deficient institutional capacity in the three most affected countries: Guinea, Liberia, and Sierra Leone. In Sierra Leone, women and children – who account for nearly seventy percent of Ebola victims – have suffered the most from the mismanaged epidemic. Ebola healthcare workers are predominantly female and, because of the massive diversion of funds to combat Ebola, the number of professional midwives has declined, causing an increase in maternal and infant mortality. Children are the most vulnerable group, including Ebola orphans who are isolated and bereft.  While the international community has launched a coordinated response to the crisis through donations, medical supplies, and military aid, such efforts merely address the symptoms, not the root causes. The Ebola outbreak highlights the systemic corruption and lack of government accountability in Sierra Leone, namely a non-transparent budget and minimal allocation of funds to improving healthcare services. In her presentation, N’yella Maya Rogers evaluated the long-term socio-economic impact of Ebola in Sierra Leone and provided a set of recommendations for the international community, Sierra Leonean citizens, and the diaspora community moving forward. Her presentation was followed by comments by Kamissa Camara.Featuringwith comments bymoderated byInternational Forum for Democratic Studies1025 F Street, N.W., Suite 800, Washington, D.C. 20004Telephone: 202-378-9675Ms. N’yella Maya Rogers is a human rights lawyer and legal officer at C.F. Margai & Associates, a law firm based in Freetown, Sierra Leone. She has worked for several human rights organizations in Sierra Leone, including Advocaid, where she investigated cases of wrongfully convicted women on death row. As president of Fourah Bay College’s Human Rights Clinic between 2007 and 2009, she advocated for the enactment of national legislation protecting women and children and participated in the collection and analysis of primary data on women and juveniles. An outspoken women’s rights advocate, she won a scholarship to study international human rights law at Harvard University in 2011 and was selected to deliver the class commencement speech in 2012. Recognizing that interactive online technologies can lower barriers to citizen engagement, even in areas with limited Internet infrastructure, Ms. Rogers is dedicating her fellowship to exploring the use of an online platform that would encourage citizens to address corruption in Sierra Leone.Kamissa Camara is the Senior Program Officer for Central and West Africa at the National Endowment for Democracy.
#Implementing Human Rights as a Path to Democracy in Vietnam##The International Forum for Democratic Studies at the National Endowment for Democracy cordially invites you to a presentation entitledfeaturingDr. Cu Huy Ha Vu Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellowwith comments byZachary Abuza Independent Scholarmoderated byCarl Gershman National Endowment for DemocracyThursday, December 11, 2014 3:00–4:30 p.m.1025 F Street, N.W., Suite 800, Washington, D.C. 20004 Telephone: 202-378-9675  RSVP here (acceptances only) with name and affiliation by Tuesday, Dec. 9Twitter: Follow @ThinkDemocracy and use #NEDEvents to join the conversation.As Vietnam opens its economy and expands its multilateral partnerships, the Vietnamese government continues to look to the West for help in coping with its economic crisis and political problems. Even as Vietnam has made recent gains in negotiations over the Trans-Pacific Partnership and the partial lifting of the U.S. arms embargo, human rights violations at the hands of the ruling Communist Party of Vietnam (CPV) remain a cause for concern. Drawing on his experiences as a prominent human rights lawyer and political prisoner, Dr. Cu Huy Ha Vu will discuss the CPV’s repressive laws and actions, offer a perspective on the current state of Vietnamese civil society, and outline recommendations for expanding freedom in Vietnam. He will argue for the urgency of implementing human rights laws and call for the democratization of Vietnam and greater East Asia. His presentation will be followed by comments by Dr. Zachary Abuza.Dr. Cu Huy Ha Vu is a leading constitutional scholar and legal advocate who has written widely on civil and political rights in Vietnam. Through a law firm established with his wife Attorney Nguyen Thi Duong Ha, a well-known human rights defender in her own right, Dr. Vu has challenged the Communist Party of Vietnam’s monopoly on power and has encouraged citizens to stand up against the government’s unlawful and repressive acts. Most notable were his two lawsuits against Vietnam’s prime minister; his legal representation of disenfranchised communities and indigenous peoples; his articles on human rights, territorial sovereignty and integrity; and his proposed amendments to the Vietnamese constitution introducing a multiparty democratic system. For these activities, Dr. Vu was arrested in 2010 on trumped-up charges and sentenced in 2011 to seven years’ imprisonment and three years of house arrest. Released in 2014 in the face of mounting domestic and international pressure, he came directly from prison in Thanh Hoa, Vietnam to the United States, where he continues to speak out on issues of national and international concern. During his fellowship, Dr. Vu is assessing the state of Vietnam’s democracy movement and the vital importance of promoting human rights in the country.Dr. Zachary Abuza is an independent scholar who formerly served as a professor of political science at the National War College and Simmons College, Boston. 
#JoD at 25 Years: “What Democracy Is…And Is Not”#December 11, 2014#In anticipation of celebrating the 25th anniversary issue in January 2015, the Journal of Democracy is revisiting five of the most influential articles on the study of democratization ever published in the Journal.During the height of the third wave of democratization, Philippe Schmitter and Terry Lynn Karl set out to identify the key components essential to democracy in their Journal of Democracy article, “What Democracy Is…And Is Not” (Summer 1991).Schmitter and Karl outlined the concepts, procedures, and principles that make democracy possible, emphasizing that “there are many types of democracy” and that they take shape according to the unique conditions in a given country. Rather than focusing on institutional formulas, Schmitter and Karl sought to describe the type of governance system that democracy should create in a society:“Modern democracy, in other words, offers a variety of competitive processes and channels for the expression of interests and values—associational as well as partisan, functional as well as territorial, collective as well as individual. All are integral to its practice.”Despite the considerable democratic momentum in 1991, Schmitter and Karl cautioned against the high expectations often placed on new democracies due to popular assumptions about expected results. “Democratization will not necessarily bring in its wake economic growth, social peace, administrative efficiency, political harmony, free markets, or ‘the end of ideology.’… Instead, what we should be hoping for is the emergence of political institutions that can peacefully compete to form governments and influence public policy, that can channel social and economic conflicts through regular procedures, and that have sufficient linkages to civil society to represent their constituencies and commit them to collective courses of action.”By focusing on the flexible political mechanisms that democracy provides, Schmitter and Karl demonstrated that the ultimate benefit of democratic governance is the creation of a system where clear rules, accountability, and citizen participation provide opportunities for self-correction. Today, as authoritarian political leaders around the world argue that democracy produces the risk of chaos, Schmitter and Karl’s analysis serves as a reminder that democracy offers the best chance for balancing societal tensions over the long term.Download “What Democracy Is…And Is Not”NED will host legendary Belarusian rock musician and activist Lavon Volski in...Ronald J. Deibert and Xiao Qiang discussed the multifaceted...JuL 15, 2014Journal of Democracy July 2014 Issue:...Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellow Martin Krygier critiqued...Please join for a screening of the documentary, "Love...In the January issue of the Journal of Democracy, Miriam Lanskoy and Dylan Myles-Primakoff...
#Maidan, One Year Later: The Changing Face of Politics in Ukraine##With an introduction by:Ukraine has experienced its most politically dynamic year since becoming independent. Within a matter of months, civic activists who were protesting on the Maidan ran in pre-term parliamentary elections and now have the opportunity and responsibility to play a more direct role in shaping their country’s future. The decision to enter party politics has created new opportunities yet a myriad of challenges remain.Hanna Hopko, a newly elected member of the Ukrainian Parliament, is a civic activist and journalist from Lviv. She helped to coordinate two prominent civic initiatives: the “Smoke Free Ukraine” coalition and, more recently, the “Reanimation Package of Reforms,” an innovative and successful effort to promote legislative changes inspired by Euromaidan. She serves on the boards of Bogomolets National Medical University, the Okhmatdyt National Children’s Specialized Hospital, and the Anti-Corruption Center. She has also been involved with the Space of Freedom movement, the Life Regional Advocacy Center, the Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids, the Bureau of Environmental Investigations, and the expert council of an inter-factional parliamentary group on spirituality, morality and health. Ms. Hopko ran for parliament at the top of the Samopomich (Self-Reliance) party’s list and was recently named one of Foreign Policy’s 100 Global Thinkers of 2014.Serhiy Leshchenko is a Kyiv-based investigative journalist, blogger and press freedom activist who was elected to parliament in October. Since 2000, he has reported on politics for Ukrainska Pravda, where he is deputy editor-in-chief and specializes in anti-corruption investigations. Mr. Leshchenko’s journalistic contributions have been recognized by Poland’s Foundation of Reporters, Reporters Without Borders, the Norwegian Fritt Ord Foundation and the German ZEIT Foundation. He was a Reagan-Fascell Fellow at the National Endowment for Democracy in 2013-2014. He is the author of two books, The American Saga of Pavlo Lazarenko and Mezhygirya Syndrome of Viktor Yanukovych, both about corruption of government officials. Mr. Leshchenko ran successfully for parliament as one of the youngest candidates on the list of the Bloc of Petro Poroshenko.Oleksandr Solontay is a civil society, local governance and community organizing activist from Zakarpattia. He serves as an expert and lecturer at the Institute of Political Education in Kyiv. He was central to mobilizing activities in Independence Square and organizing Euromaidan SOS, a volunteer group that coordinated assistance during the Revolution of Dignity. His background includes service as a deputy of the Uzhhorod city council and the Zakarpattia regional council. He has authored manuals for new politicians and local council deputies, books on community development and combating corruption, and policy recommendations on state funding of civil society organizations. He has been an active leader among Ukraine’s youth movement, including founding several volunteer groups and co-authoring Ukraine’s current youth policy. Mr. Solontay ran for parliament on the list of the People’s Force party, a group that he helped to establish.  
#Laura Golightly Named Senior Director of Financial Management & Integration at National Endowment for Democracy#December 5, 2014#For Immediate Release December 5, 2014 Contact: Jane Riley Jacobsen (202) 378-9700 or jane@ned.orgWashington, DC — The National Endowment for Democracy (NED) is pleased to announce the appointment of Laura Golightly as the Senior Director of Financial Management & Integration. Golightly brings over 23 years of broad-based U.S. and international nonprofit experience in financial operations management and audit. Golightly joined the NED staff on October 28, 2014.“We are delighted that Laura Golightly has joined our team. Her expertise and background makes her extraordinarily qualified to lead NED’s efforts to streamline financial management,” said Bill Leonard, Chief Operating Officer at NED.Golightly most recently served in the conflict transformation niche as CFO for Search for Common Ground, and for six years as Pact’s Director of Global Finance, lending her financial expertise to their capacity building activities worldwide in the sectors of health, livelihoods, and natural resource management. She also served as CFO in the primary healthcare, education and social services field for Mary’s Center for Maternal & Childcare, and supporting those with developmental disabilities at National Children’s Center here in Washington, DC. Previously Laura worked in Chicago, where she served for over 9 years as CFO for Pioneer Center for Human Services in the behavioral health and developmental disabilities arena. Laura is a CPA and CGMA , having graduated cum laude at North Carolina State University with a Bachelor of Arts degree in Accounting. Laura is a member of the AICPA as well as the Greater Washington Society of CPAs.The NED is a private, nonprofit foundation dedicated to the growth and strengthening of democratic institutions around the world. Each year, with funding from the U.S. Congress, NED makes more than 1,000 grants in support of projects carried out by non-governmental groups working for democratic goals in more than 90 countries.
#The Political and Media Situation in Ukraine: A View from Inside##Hosted by the International Forum for Democratic Studies and the Institute for European, Russia, and Eurasian Studies at the George Washington Universityfeaturingwith comments bymoderated byintroductory remarks byTuesday, December 2, 2014 4:00 pm – 5:30 pmThe George Washington University Elliott School for International Affairs Linder Family Commons1957 E St. NW, Room 602RSVP HereSince the beginning of 2014, Ukraine has experienced a popular revolution to overthrow a corrupt leader, held presidential and parliamentary elections, and suffered an invasion by Russia. Yevgeny Kiselev, a leading journalist in Ukraine, will provide an overview of the situation there from his unique perspective. He will also share his observations on the media environment in Ukraine today and explain the challenges that journalists face as the country attempts to break with its Soviet past, while fending off a hostile neighbor.Yevgeny Kiselev is a well-known and respected journalist. Originally from Russia, he gained popularity in the 1990s and early 2000s as one of the co-founders of NTV, then Russia’s only independent television news channel. Kiselev served as NTV’s last general director before Gazprom Media took it over in 2001. Under Putin, Kiselev was harassed by the government, forcing him to continue his journalistic career in Ukraine. Since 2008 Kiselev has been working in Kyiv, hosting several prime-time political shows on Inter, one of the most popular channels in Ukraine. He is also an active public speaker, columnist, and blogger, and contributes to a number of Ukrainian and Russian print media outlets. Kiselev is a recipient of many journalistic awards, including the prestigious International Press Freedom Award (1995) from the New York-based Committee to Protect Journalists.Nadia Diuk is Vice President, Programs for Europe, Eurasia, Africa, and Latin America and the Caribbean at the National Endowment for Democracy (NED).Robert Orttung is Assistant Director, Institute for European, Russian, and Eurasian Studies at the Elliott School of International Affairs at the George Washington University.
#2014 Democracy Service Medal to Frank Wolf##Introduction and Presentation of Medal:Acceptance of Medal:Representative Frank Wolf (R-VA) will be receiving the 2014 Democracy Service Medal. He is one of Congress’ most eloquent and persistent advocates for human rights around the world. In addition to speaking out on behalf of victims of religious and other forms of persecution, Rep. Wolf is the co-chairman, along with Rep. Jim McGovern (D-MA), of the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission, and was one of the driving forces behind the creation of the U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom. 
#APSA-CD Newsletter: “Regime Change: Useful Lessons from the Past”#November 25, 2014#Democratization scholars analyze historical cases of regime change in the November 2014 issue of the American Political Science Association–Comparative Democratization section newsletter. As new research increasingly focuses on understanding democratic backsliding and authoritarianism, the newsletter’s contributing authors seek to apply lessons learned from past transition experiences to current political developments around the world.Download APSA-CD November 2014On May 2, 2019, the National Endowment for Democracy hosted a discussion of...The democratic struggles that have been waged in this...In an article published by The American Interest, Christopher...Shanthi Kalathil testified in front of the House Foreign...In the April 2018 issue of the Journal of Democracy,...NED will honor defenders of human and religious rights in China.
#“Are Czechs giving up on moral responsibility?”#November 19, 2014#By Carl GershmanAs written in The Washington Post on November 16, 2014.Monday is the 25th anniversary of the start of the Velvet Revolution in Czechoslovakia. To mark the occasion, a bust of Václav Havel, the leader of that revolution, Czechoslovakia’s first post-Communist president and one of the most significant intellectual and political leaders of the Cold War era and its aftermath, will be unveiled Wednesday in the U.S. Capitol. Only three other international figures have been honored in this way — Britain’s Winston Churchill, Hungary’s Lajos Kossuth and Sweden’s Raoul Wallenberg — and Havel eminently deserves to be among them.When he addressed a joint session of Congress just three months after the revolution, Havel spoke with deep feeling about his country’s indebtedness to the United States, including for President Woodrow Wilson’s great support for the founding of Czechoslovakia in 1918, U.S. sacrifice and leadership in three wars — two hot and one cold — to save freedom in Europe, and the American founding documents that “inspire us to be citizens.” Havel emphasized the importance of morality in politics and economics and said that we should base our actions on “responsibility to something higher than my family, country, my firm, my success.”That sense of moral responsibility for others led Havel, until his death in 2011, to be one of the world’s leading advocates for human rights. While his support for nonviolent opponents of dictatorship such as the Dalai Lama, Liu Xiaobo, Aung San Suu Kyi and Oswaldo Payá was unqualified and deeply felt, it was never based on purely humanitarian concerns. He believed that people such as himself, who had experienced Communist totalitarianism firsthand, had a special responsibility to warn the affluent West about the dangers of appeasement, and he felt that a “politics where economic interests are put above basic political values are not only immoral, they are suicidal.” In his last years, he applied this thinking especially to Russia and China.Though the Czech government will be represented by Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka at the ceremony Wednesday, there is growing evidence that the government has strayed drastically from Havel’s legacy. At the NATO summit in September, Czech President Milos Zeman got into a public argument with Swedish Foreign Minister Carl Bildt when he denied that there was “clear proof” of Russia’s intervention in Ukraine. He also denounced Mikhail Khodorkovsky as “a thief” soon after the exiled Russian opposition leader had come to Prague to deliver the keynote address to the annual conference of Forum 2000, an organization founded by Havel in 1996. “If there’s anything I don’t like about the Putin regime,” Zeman said, “it’s that he put only Khodorkovsky in prison and not more oligarchs.” Last month, during a visit to China focused on boosting trade ties, he further separated himself from the Havel legacy by ignoring human rights and assuring Beijing that he accepted China’s position on Tibet and Taiwan.The policy of appeasing Vladi­mir Putin and putting economic relations with China above human rights is being reinforced today by the Czech foreign ministry, which is in the process of terminating the assistance that has been provided to dissidents in Cuba, Belarus and China through a government program called TRANS, short for Transformation Aid. The deputy foreign minister in charge of revamping the program, Petr Drulák, has said the Havel approach to human rights is based on a “false universalism” that seeks to “impose on others our idea of the ideal society.” Linking Havel and his followers to “American neoconservatives,” Drulák said in an interview with the Czech newspaper Lidové noviny that “this policy was truly wrong and harmful.”Havel’s mentor was the Czech philosopher Jan Patocka, to whom he dedicated his seminal essay “The Power of the Powerless.” As explained by the Polish writer Adam Michnik, Patocka believed that the Czechs, though a small European people, had what he called “a Great History” as well as “a Little History.” It was great, Michnik wrote, “when they independently and creatively have engaged in matters of universal significance — for example, when they formed the vanguard of the European Reformation movement and paved Western Christendom’s path toward ‘lay’ formations of Christianity. Their history has been petty whenever the Czechs have ensconced themselves, or have been ensconced, in the ‘banality of provincialism.’ ”This provincialism also worried Havel, who criticized what he called “Czech small-mindedness. Look after Number One, don’t get mixed up in other people’s business, keep your head down, don’t look up — we’re surrounded by mountains, those whirlwinds from the outside world will blow over our head, and we can go on burrowing away in our own little backyard.”This week, Congress will honor a man who represented the great history of the Czech people, earning them renown throughout the world. May the ceremony celebrating Havel’s life send a message to his successors that they do their nation and its reputation great harm by retreating into small-mindedness at a time when whirlwinds from the outside world are gathering with very dangerous force. Read Carl Gershman's Remarks on authoritarianism in...National Endowment for Democracy President Carl Gershman...The National Endowment for Democracy (NED) welcomes the announcement today that...
#JoD at 25 Years: "Democracy’s Third Wave" by Samuel P. Huntington#November 19, 2014#In anticipation of celebrating the 25th anniversary issue in January 2015, the Journal of Democracy will revisit five of the most influential articles on the study of democratization ever published in the Journal.Before renowned political scientist Samuel P. Huntington published his book, The Third Wave: Democratization in the Late Twentieth Century, he wrote an article summarizing his analysis in the Spring 1991 issue of the Journal of Democracy. Reflecting on the unprecedented number of democratic transitions that occurred after the breakdown of authoritarian regimes and the collapse of communism in the former Soviet Union, he raised critical questions about the nature of these changes and their implications for the future:“Between 1974 and 1990, at least 30 countries made transitions to democracy, just about doubling the number of democratic governments in the world. Were these democratizations part of a continuing and ever-expanding ‘global democratic revolution’ that will reach virtually every country in the world? Or did they represent a limited expansion of democracy, involving for the most part its reintroduction into countries that had experienced it in the past?”In addition to identifying the forces that contributed to the third wave of democratization, Huntington reminded readers that the first and second waves of democratization earlier in the twentieth century later were partly rolled back by “reverse waves.” Thus a significant part of his essay was devoted to anticipating developments that could threaten the democratic progress brought by the third wave, including “the weakness of democratic values among elite groups and the general public,” “severe economic setbacks,” “the breakdown of law and order resulting from terrorism or insurgency,” and “intervention or conquest by a nondemocratic foreign power.”As the Journal of Democracy looks back on democracy’s trajectory over the past quarter-century, it is clear that formidable challenges remain ahead. Nearly 25 years later, the forces that Huntington explored in this foundational article still have the potential to shape the future of democracy around the world.Download “Democracy’s Third Wave” [PDF]The Journal of Democracy is the world’s leading publication on the theory and practice of democracy. Since its inaugural issue appeared in January 1990, it has engaged both activists and intellectuals in critical discussions of the problems and prospects of democracy around the world. Today, the Journal is at the center of debate on the major social, political, and cultural challenges that confront both emerging and established democracies. The Journal is published by Johns Hopkins University Press on behalf of the National Endowment for Democracy’s International Forum for Democratic Studies.Apr 15, 2014 Journal of Democracy April...JuL 15, 2014Journal of Democracy July 2014 Issue:...The Washington Post editorial board discussed the findings...The June 2018 edition of the Forum newsletter explores...
#NED President’s Remarks to the Ukrainian American Bar Association#November 18, 2014#There are two important post-communist anniversaries this week. The first is on Monday, November 17 – the 25th anniversary of the Velvet Revolution, on which occasion a bust of Vaclav Havel will be unveiled in the U.S. Capitol. The second, just as important but probably less noticed, is the first anniversary of the Maidan Uprising in Ukraine, which occurs next Friday, November 21. It’s hard to believe that so much has happened in less than one year: the EuroMaidan uprising, the sustained protests in sub-freezing temperatures against the corruption of the Yanukovych government, the repression, the martyrs, the fall of Yanukovych, then the Russian invasion and annexation of Crimea, and now Russia’s continuing aggression in eastern Ukraine. These have been world transforming events, and they’re continuing to this day, with consequences that go far beyond Ukraine.A new Ukraine has emerged from all of this turmoil and struggle. It’s a more unified country than ever before, with a much stronger sense of national identity. I was speaking over dinner with Professor Volodymyr Vassylenko, who said that Putin is trying to destroy Ukraine’s national identity. But in an ironic way, it is because of Ukraine’s struggle, and therefore also because of Putin and Yanukovych, that Ukraine has become a new country, a unitary state where language and other divisions are no longer as difficult as they once were; a country that wants to become a modern, European state with democracy and the rule of law.I was in Ukraine last May for a solidarity conference of intellectuals organized by Professor Timothy Snyder and Leon Wieseltier of The New Republic. There was a session bringing together religious leaders from all different faiths – Greek and Roman Catholics, Orthodox Christians, Protestants, Muslims, and Jews. There was also a panel of seven Jewish leaders. Everyone there was speaking as a Ukrainian. This could never have happened before, and it’s happened because of the Maidan and the Russian aggression against the uprising and against Ukraine itself.The Maidan uprising was a profoundly democratic event, with the protesters embracing a concept of democratic citizenship involving individual responsibility to uphold democratic values and to serve the larger community. Ukraine took another step towards democracy on October 26 when it held parliamentary elections. NED’s Nadia Diuk, who is with us tonight, was there as an election observer. She reported afterwards that one of the most significant things that happened in the elections was that civil-society activists, journalists and other leaders from the Maidan entered politics for the first time. The decision by these activists and journalists to run for parliament was not an easy one because politics and politicians have such a bad reputation in Ukraine – for good reason since it’s considered a dirty business. But they knew that they could not defend the revolution and achieve the reforms contained in the Reanimation Reforms Package initiative if they did not make the jump from civic activism to politics. They simply had done as much as they could do as civic activists and had to take responsibility for governance. This is something that the protesters in Egypt’s Tahrir Square could not do, which is why in the end Egypt’s revolution fared so badly.And so activists like the journalist Mustafa Nayyem, whose Facebook post launched the Maidan protests, made the difficult decision to move from protest to politics. And I think Ukraine will benefit as a result. I’m happy to announce that on December 9 three of the Maidan activists who were elected to the new parliament will be honored at a dinner in Washington of the National Democratic Institute, one of NED’s four core institute which is chaired by Madeleine Albright and has been very active in Ukraine. The three are Serhiy Leshchenko, the investigative journalist who took a leave from his Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellow at NED to return to Kyiv when the Maidan protests erupted last November; Hanna Hopko, an ecology advocate and journalist; and Oleksandr Solontay, a political analyst and civic educator.The entry of such people into politics is extremely important since there is now an urgent need to implement real reforms. Anders Aslund, a leading specialist on postcommunist economic transition, has described the current economic situation in Ukraine as “desperate, though not hopeless.” He has written that the economy is on the verge of a meltdown, with the GDP plummeting by 8 percent this year – 10 percent according to The Economist – and the budget deficit rising to 12 percent of GDP. The value of the hryvnia has fallen by half and is likely to fall much more. Inflation for this year will reach 24 percent, and of course the war in the east has caused billions of dollars in damage.In a policy brief published by the Peterson Institute for International Economics, Aslund offers “An Economic Strategy to Save Ukraine.” Among its key points are that the reformist forces that won the parliamentary elections need to agree as soon as possible on the formation of a highly competent coalition government, which then will launch the kind of radical reforms contained in the Reanimation Package. These include cleaning up the government from the top down, including the purge of corrupt officials from the old regime, especially in the judiciary and police; abolishing the legal immunity of parliamentarians so that they can be held accountable; closing or merging superfluous or even harmful state agencies, and laying off excess staff while raising salaries and qualifications; cutting public expenditures by one-tenth of GDP in the next year; and reducing energy subsidies by unifying energy prices – meaning putting an end to the trading of gas between low state-controlled prices and high market prices – which Aslund calls “the main mechanism of corruption” in Ukraine.In addition to implementing radical reforms, Ukraine will need much more financial support than it has received to date from the IMF and other international financial institutions – not in the form of credits, which Ukraine won’t be able to repay as the economy is collapsing – but as aid to rebuild its economy. What’s needed, according to Aslund, is a new Marshall Plan to save Ukraine, just as the United States saved Europe after World War Two. And it can work, because Ukraine is now ready to do what has to be done to control corruption and become a modern state.The challenge confronting Ukraine is more difficult than the one faced by post-war Europe because it needs to rebuild economically while the war is still going on – in this case, the war caused by Russia’s continuing aggression in Ukraine’s east. Ukraine is now fighting a war of survival against a very brutal, dangerous, and powerful enemy. NATO Commanding General Philip Breedlove said on Wednesday that Russian forces have again crossed the border into south east Ukraine with tanks, artillery and troops. He charged that Putin is ignoring last September’s Minsk peace accords calling for the withdrawal of Russian troops from the region, but as The Economist reports in the current issue, Putin claims he doesn’t have to do so since Russia has no troops in Ukraine in the first place. Of course he’s lying, but the West, Breedlove aside, is not calling him on it. The Economist notes that Putin’s standard operating procedure is to escalate the conflict and then agree to go no further in exchange for concessions, and he has been getting away with it. It quotes Kirill Rogov, a Russian political analyst at the Gaidar Institute in Moscow, as saying that “Putin likes to open talks by putting a knife on the table first.” Yet somehow we continue to think that Putin is a potential partner in securing a more peaceful world order.But of course he’s not a partner. The German government has called the latest Russian move “incomprehensible,” but it’s perfectly comprehensible if one just observes Russian behavior. And the new foreign policy chief of the European Union, Federica Mogherini of Italy, has said that we can’t let the peace process break down because it will be so difficult to start it again. But what peace process is she speaking about? The Wall Street Journal said yesterday that “Putin has never stood down” – not in Chechnya in 1999 when he used the Chechen war to take power; not in Georgia in 2008; and not in 2012, when he whipped up anti-Americanism and domestic repression to crush anti-government street protests. He will stand down only if and when he is forced to stand down.No, he’s not a partner in peace or in negotiations, and he has demonstrated a seething anti-Americanism. Here’s how The Washington Post characterized his recent speech in Valdai. They called it “a poisonous mix of lies, conspiracy theories, thinly veiled threats of further aggression and, above all, seething resentment toward the United States.”Now he’s gone even further with his endorsement of the Nazi-Soviet Pact. What can this mean? Tim Snyder’s answer is that Putin is following Stalin: “In his own way, Putin is now attempting much the same thing. Just as Stalin sought to turn the most radical of European forces, Adolf Hitler, against Europe itself, so Putin is allying with his grab bag of anti-European populists, fascists, and separatists. His allies on the far right are precisely the political forces that wish to bring an end to the current European order: the European Union.”What are we to do? More important, really the first question, is what are we dealing with here? If Putin’s Russia is not a partner, then what is it? And if it is an adversary, or an opponent, or even an enemy – which is certainly how Putin views it – how does this affect us?I suggest that Putin seeks a different kind of world order than the one that followed the end of the Cold War and the breakup of the Soviet Union, which he said was “the greatest geopolitical tragedy of the 20th Century.” That’s why he “drove a tank over the world order” as The Economist put it last March after the invasion and annexation of Crimea: He thinks the current world order represents a grave injustice to Russia. He is seeking to reverse the verdict of 1989, which he considers to be an unjust and humiliating defeat for Russia.The Russian analyst Lilia Shevtsova, who delivered the NED’s annual Lipset Lecture on Democracy last month at the Canadian Embassy, has said that the world is in the midst of an authoritarian surge. She adds that “Today’s Russia is an advance combat unit of the new global authoritarianism, with China…waiting in the wings to seize its own opportunities.” She warns that if the West chooses to respond with appeasement, “this will give a green light to the Authoritarian Internationale, signaling that the West is weak and can be trampled underfoot.” As The Wall Street Journal said yesterday, it will certainly open the way for Putin to threaten and attack other countries aside from Ukraine – Moldova, the Baltic states, Poland, and Kazakhstan.Should this matter to the United States? Are our own interests involved, leaving aside those of Ukraine and our allies? Why should we care? I raised this question at a forum we organized the day following Lilia Shevtsova’s lecture. A member of the panel, Leon Aron of the American Enterprise Institute, responded that Russia is a country with 1,700 nuclear missiles and is now in the grip of a leader with a messianic, revanchist ideology and historic grievances against the United States. Shouldn’t that matter to us? If Putin wants to destroy NATO and the EU, shouldn’t we care? Have we no sense of what our national interest is and what we must do to defend it?We are entering a new moment in our politics. After last week’s election, we can expect a much tougher tone in the debate in Congress over foreign policy, and more pressure for a stronger response than we’ve seen so far to Putin’s aggression. There will certainly be an effort to expand sanctions to sharpen the economic crisis that is growing in Russia. The ruble has fallen by 22 percent so far this year, a rate of decline second only to Argentina. The drop in oil prices, the outflow of capital that could exceed $100 billion this year, the inflation in food prices caused by Putin’s retaliatory embargo on agricultural imports from the West – all of this will contribute to Russia’s severe economic difficulties and present new opportunities to increase pressure on Russia by tightening sanctions.But what is most urgent, as Senators Carl Levin and Jim Inhofe wrote in The Washington Post last month, is the need to give Ukraine the weapons it needs to defend itself. They don’t want U.S. boots on the ground, but blankets and foods rations are hardly enough, as President Poroshenko told the Congress in September. What they need is what was provided for in the bill adopted with bipartisan and unanimous support in the Senate Foreign Relations Committee: anti-tank weapons to defend against Russian-provided armored personnel carriers; ammunition; vehicles and secure communications equipment; and intelligence support and training.Key leaders in the U.S. and Europe have said that they oppose weapons for Ukraine because they fear that an armed Ukraine might think that there is a military solution to the conflict. Unfortunately, as The Washington Post has repeatedly pointed out, Mr. Putin does not agree that there is no military solution. He has used military escalation to achieve his victory in the form of a dissected Ukraine and a frozen conflict that will destabilize Ukraine for the foreseeable future and deny it membership in the European Union and NATO. Military aid to Ukraine may not by itself bring the conflict to an end, but no political solution will be possible in the absence of a military balance that convinces Putin that his aggression will meet with stiff resistance and will not be able to succeed.If he does fail, the consequences for Putin could be severe. Clearly he hopes that the invasion and annexation of Crimea and the attack on eastern Ukraine will help him gain support in Russia and resist pressures for change. He’s not the first Russian leader to think that way. In 1904, the czarist interior minister Vyacheslav Plehve said, “What this country needs is a short victorious war to stem the tide of revolution.” He had in mind Russia’s war against Japan. But what happened? Plehve was assassinated, Russia lost the war, and the defeat precipitated the revolution of 1905, which brought about Russia’s first parliament and the reforms of Pyotr Stolypin. According to both the Russian analyst Vladimir Kara Murza and the Georgian writer Ghia Nodia, this was not the only case of a Russian military defeat or setback leading to political change. They note that Russia’s defeat in the Crimean War of 1853-1856 demonstrated the backwardness of its autocratic system and led to the abolition of serfdom and other liberal reforms, including the establishment of local self-government and trial by jury. Russia’s devastating setbacks in World War I contributed to the collapse of the czarist system and the Russia Revolution of 1917, which began as a democratic revolution before the Bolshevik coup. And the failed Soviet invasion of Afghanistan precipitated the disintegration of the Soviet Union. Putin may yet regret the day he decided to send troops into Ukraine.But many people think who argue that the fall of Putin would itself present a great danger because he will likely be replaced by someone even worse. They say that Russia, with its autocratic history and authoritarian culture, is not capable of establishing a real democracy. But is that true?I asked that question to my friend Vladimir Kara Murza, who now works in Moscow for Mikhail Khodorkovsky’s Open Russia, which seeks a democratic opening and a European future for Russia. Kara Murza responded by saying that anti-democratic forces have always done badly in Russian elections whenever they were free and competitive. The first-ever election was in 1906, when the Constitutional Democratic Party, which had campaigned for liberal reforms and a British-style parliamentary system, won a plurality of seats in the State Duma, while the far-right monarchists failed to get even a single candidate elected. In 1917, in the election for the Constituent Assembly held after the Bolshevik coup, the Bolsheviks lost to the pro-democracy Socialist Revolutionary Party by 40 to 24 percent, which is why the Bolsheviks then dispersed the “bourgeois” Assembly by force. The next time the Russians had a chance to vote, according to Kara Murza, was in 1991 when Boris Yeltsin, backed by the opposition Democratic Russia movement, overwhelmingly defeated the Communist candidate, former Soviet Premier Nikolai Ryzhkov, by 57 to 17 percent. Even in the 1993 parliamentary elections, when ultra-nationalist Vladimir Zhirinovsky won a plurality, the centrist and liberal parties out-polled the combined total received by Zhirinovsky and the Communists by 40 to 35 percent. And in 1996, even though Yeltsin was an unpopular incumbent and in poor health, he was able to defeat the Communist leader Gennady Zyuganov by 54 to 40 percent in the second-round presidential runoff.I am by no means saying that democracy is inevitable in Russia, only that it is possible, and that one should not resign oneself to Putin’s continued rule on the grounds that the only possible alternative to him would be worse. I believe that Putin does not feel secure in his power, and that the greatest threat to autocracy in Russia is a successful and a democratic Ukraine. This is what Putin fears most, because the mentality of Russian imperialism that Putin represents will wither if Russia cannot control Ukraine. Without Ukraine, Russia ceases to be an empire, as Zbigniew Brzezinski has said, and it can become a more normal country, even a democracy, where the central concern is not the power of Great Russia but the welfare of the people.Putin also fears a democratic Ukraine because it will be a powerful model for Russia itself. He knows that a neighboring Ukraine, with millions of Russian-speaking people freely expressing themselves, will be a magnetic symbol of democratic freedoms for people inside Russia.So the strategic goal for people who want to see a more peaceful and democratic world is a Russia that, like Ukraine, wants to be democratic and a part of Europe. I don’t know if that will happen. But I do know that a successful and democratic Ukraine is a precondition for it to happen. Therefore, Ukraine’s struggle for democracy, independence, and territorial integrity has global significance. It’s a struggle that will have consequences for the whole world. And I believe that the U.S. has a profound national interest in its success. So we must stand with Ukraine, not just because it deserves our support, but to defend our values and our national security.In conclusion, I want to refer back to the October 26 election and to the thought that Ukraine is a new country. As I mentioned, Nadia Diuk was there as an observer, in Dnipropetrovsk, which used to be a center for Soviet missile production. She wrote afterwards that she saw signs of a different country and a new patriotism all about her, in political graffiti and in walls and fences painted yellow and blue. She said that on her return plane trip to Kyiv from Dnipropetrovsk, the steward made the usual announcements before landing, saying that the passengers should make sure to take all of your personal belongings.” And then he ended with the phrase that was as unusual as it was expressive of the new spirit of the country, and it’s how I want to end tonight: “Slava Ukraini!” – Glory to Ukraine.Thank you very much.Read remarks by NED President Carl Gershman at “North Korea: The Human Condition...This article is based on remarks Carl Gershman delivered...Religious Liberty and Its Role in Building Democracy:...Remarks delivered by NED President Carl Gershman at the 27th Estoril Political...
#The Menace of Unreality: How the Kremlin Weaponizes Information, Culture, and Money#November 17, 2014#In an era where freedom of speech and information are considered to be sacred, what happens when a powerful international actor abuses those freedoms to spread disinformation? This is the question that journalists Peter Pomerantsev and Michael Weiss explored in a new report examining how the regime of Russian President Vladimir Putin has leveraged the “weaponization of information, culture and money” to wage a war of influence against the West.Joined by Hannah Thoburn of the Foreign Policy Institute and David Kramer of Freedom House, the authors discussed how and why Russia is working in these three areas to manipulate and subvert international order at a November 13, 2014 event cosponsored by the International Forum for Democratic Studies and the Institute of Modern Russia. The report analyzes the toolkit used by the Kremlin to exploit Western weak spots and recommends steps the West can take to counter the spread of disinformation and the weaponization of money, culture, and ideas. “The Menace of Unreality: How the Kremlin Weaponizes Information, Culture and Money”A Special Report by The Interpreter, a project of the Institute of Modern Russiaby Peter Pomerantsev and Michael WeissDownload the ReportRead the Executive SummaryRead a review of the report on “Putin’s Disinformation Matrix,” published by the Wall Street Journal.Watch coverage of the report discussion produced by RFE/RL’s Current Time TV. [in Russian] Learn more about Peter Pomerantsev’s new book, Nothing is True and Everything is Possible: The Surreal Heart of the New Russia.Read “Russia’s International Media Poisons Minds,” written by Christopher Walker and Robert Orttung in The Moscow Times. Watch discussion about “Ukraine, Georgia, and Moldova: How Corruption Threatens the Eastern Partnership,” an event cosponsored by the Forum, the Institute of Modern Russia, and the Legatum Institute in July 2014.See video from the Forum’s October 2013 event with the Institute of Modern Russia and the Legatum Institute on  “Russia: A Postmodern Dictatorship?”
#New Democratization Research from Forum Research Council Members#November 6, 2014#The International Forum for Democratic Studies Research Council is a group of approximately 80 scholars and specialists recognized for their outstanding work and expertise on democracy and democratization. Several Research Council members have recently made significant contributions to the study of democratization by publishing new books on politics, protest movements, and international relations, listed below.For additional recommended reading on democracy, see 4 new books highlighted in the November 4, 2014 issue of Worth Reading.Power Politics in Zimbabwe. By Michael Bratton. Lynne Rienner, 2014.Democracy Disrupted: The Politics of Global Protest. By Ivan Krastev. University of Pennsylvania Press, 2014. Read “From Politics to Protests” by Ivan Krastev in the October 2014 Journal of Democracy.Taking to the Streets: The Transformation of Arab Activisim. Edited by Lina Khatib and Ellen Lust. Johns Hopkins University Press, 2014.The Politics of Uncertainty: Sustaining and Subverting Electoral Authoritarianism. By Andreas Schedler. Oxford University Press, 2013. Is the EU Doomed? By Jan Zielonka. Polity, 2014. Mr. Yanhai Wan has been a leading voice on HIV/AIDS-related human rights issues...Democracy and Insecurity in Central America: The Role...William Galston, the Ezra K. Zilkha Chair in Governance...The National Endowment for Democracy has elected six...The International Forum for Democratic Studies at...
#Russia’s International Media Poisons Minds#November 6, 2014#“The Kremlin is focused on poisoning minds through an insidious mix of information designed to muddy the media waters and disorient international audiences” wrote Christopher Walker and Forum Research Council Member Robert Orttung in The Moscow Times. At a time when Russia’s image in Europe and the U.S. has sunk to extreme lows, the Kremlin has announced dramatic new plans to increase spending on foreign propaganda. The Russian state budget includes a 41 percent increase for RT, the state-backed television network that broadcasts around the world in a number of languages. Rossiya Segodnya, the successor to the now defunct global news agency RIA Novosti, is set to see a tripling of its budget.These media investments ostensibly reflect the Kremlin’s ambition to win sympathies abroad. Upon closer inspection, however, Russia’s large and growing investment in international media is not about winning hearts through “unbiased coverage of events in Russia,” as President Vladimir Putin has claimed.Instead, the Kremlin is focused on poisoning minds through an insidious mix of information designed to muddy the media waters and disorient international audiences. Seen in this context, Russia’s surging international media investment makes more sense.In recent years, authoritarian government-backed media enterprises such as RT have rapidly expanded into world markets. In a short period of time, RT ensconced itself on scores of cable systems and into nearly 3 million hotels rooms around the world.The station has, by its own reckoning, the capacity to reach more than 600 million people globally. RT’s English, Arabic and Spanish language programming is only one part of a vaster constellation of Russian government media assets that include Rossiya Segodnya, as well as the Voice of Russia, TASS and Ruptly (RT’s video news agency).Understanding the value of a global media platform, the Kremlin works diligently to extend its reach. During a trip to Argentina in July, Putin cut a little-noticed deal with his Argentinian counterpart Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner that allows RT’s Spanish-language channel to broadcast its content 24/7 to an audience of millions in Argentina, the first foreign channel to have this privilege in the country.Part of the explanation for the just-announced large budget increase is to enable the development of new French- and German-language broadcasts on RT.It is telling that the growth in resources devoted to media beyond Russia’s borders is now outstripping those within them. At home, the Kremlin’s censorship and mass media control prevent alternative ideas from entering mainstream discussion and enable the government to dominate crucial narratives.The framing of the shoot-down of Malaysia Airlines Flight MH17 is a case in point. By virtue of a barrage of twisted information from Kremlin-controlled state television, many Russian citizens believe conspiracy theories that have no basis in fact, rather than the far more plausible explanation that Russian-backed insurgents shot down the plane.Outside Russia, where Kremlin censorship cannot eliminate alternative views, the aim of Russia’s media is different. In settings with media pluralism, Russia’s goal is not to persuade audiences of the virtues of Kremlin policy but to create confusion and raise doubts about the facts of a given issue.By muddling thinking about the Russian annexation of Crimea and use of military force to establish a frozen conflict in eastern Ukraine, the Kremlin seeks to prevent a coordinated and resolute response from the West.Russia’s framing of the news gains traction when it resonates at some level with ideas that are already in viewers’ minds. Our research on the Russian domestic television audience suggests that state television is most likely to get its message about the Ukraine conflict across when it taps into deeply held emotions, for instance those linked to Russia’s victory in World War II or anti-Americanism stoked during the Cold War.The Kremlin’s international propaganda applies a similarly cynical and manipulative approach, where it insinuates, for instance, that all societies are thoroughly corrupt and craven, suggesting moral equivalence between autocracies and democracies. RT unloads an endless stream of material seeking to portray the West, especially the U.S., in the most decadent of ways.Russia’s media overlords are masters of television control, but also have adapted effectively to new media. Russian spin doctors have figured out how to exploit the information overload that is characteristic of the online media environment. The Kremlin seizes opportunities to shape narratives and twist public understanding in a freewheeling online world in which audiences do not have time or motivation to authenticate twisted information and outright fakery.As media analyst Peter Pomerantsev observed, debunking false information is time-consuming and expensive; the Kremlin’s fabrication of information is easy and relatively cheap. While the Kremlin tightens restrictions on the Internet at home, state media takes advantage of opportunities to make deeper inroads online beyond Russia’s borders. RT’s YouTube channel has garnered more than 1.3 billion views. Even accounting for clicks from phony accounts, this is a staggering number.Finally, Russia and authoritarian regimes claim that their media outlets are just like Deutsche Welle, BBC or Agence France-Presse, news organizations that operate under accountable and transparent editorial structures. In making this comparison, however, Kremlin spin doctors are really comparing apples to oranges.RT operates under the direction of unchecked authoritarian political power and is therefore an entirely different enterprise. Accordingly, it should not be understood as a news outlet, but instead seen for what it is: a weaponized media instrument.While it denies any meaningful space at home for independent voices, beyond its borders the Kremlin is flooding the media space with half-truths and outright lies with the aim of polluting audiences’ understanding of the world.Given the serious stakes involved, the democracies must devise a far more thoughtful response  to meet the dual challenge of Russia’s intensifying censorship and modern propaganda.Read Carl Gershman's opening remarks at IRI's Democracy Backlash Seminar.Melissa Aten of the International Forum for Democratic...Writing for Policy Options, NED Vice President for...Dr. Lilia Shevtsova to speak at Embassy of CanadaWashington,...The International Forum for Democratic Studies asked five leading experts about...
#Worth Reading (Nov. 4, 2014): Four New Books#November 4, 2014#This issue of Worth Reading features four recent books by authors affiliated with the National Endowment for Democracy: NED Board and Research Council Member Francis Fukuyama’s Political Order and Political Decay: From the Industrial Revolution to the Globalization of Democracy; NED Board Member Azar Nafisi’s The Republic of Imagination: America in Three Books; NED Board Member Stephen Sestanovich’s Maximalist: America in the World from Truman to Obama; and Research Council Member Abraham F. Lowenthal’s Scholars, Policymakers, and International Affairs: Finding Common Cause, published with Mariano E. Bertucci.Research Council Member Francis Fukuyama published Political Order and Political Decay: From the Industrial Revolution to the Globalization of Democracy, the second of two volumes reexamining the themes taken up in Samuel Huntington’s 1968 work, Political Order in Changing Societies. Volume one, The Origins of Political Order: From Prehuman Times to the French Revolution, examined the evolution of societies marked by the rule of law, meritocracy in the civil service, and political accountability. In volume two, Fukuyama embarks on a wide-ranging examination of how these institutions break down and become mired in corruption, cronyism, and dysfunction. From the French Revolution to post-colonial Latin America, the Arab Spring, and the future of modern American democracy, Fukuyama explores the sources of political decay in the modern age.Watch Francis Fukuyama discuss his new book in a public presentation given at the International Forum for Democratic Studies at the National Endowment for Democracy.Azar Nafisi’s The Republic of Imagination: America in Three Books is a memoir in which she examines how engagement with the humanities (and literature in particular) is key to the health of American democracy. Through a “[blend] of memoir and polemic with close readings of her favorite American novels–The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn, Babbitt, and The Heart Is a Lonely Hunter, among others”–Nafisi urges American lovers of literature to promote the humanities as an important avenue for understanding and participating in American democracy.Stephen Sestanovich’s Maximalist: America in the World from Truman to Obama argues that “when the United States has succeeded in the world… it has done so not by staying the course but by having to change it–usually amid deep controversy and uncertainty.” Sestanovich highlights the way that the greatest successes and failures of US foreign policy have not been forgone conclusions born of bipartisan agreement, but were instead the product of frequent, intense disagreement and doubt. Maximalist throws leaders, crises, and turning points into new light as it demonstrates that foreign policy has always been a high-stakes operation conducted amidst the challenges of dysfunctional international institutions, reluctant allies, and political infighting. Sestanovich shows how these forces and their effect on US leaders create cycles of ambition and retrenchment which have repeated through nearly seven decades of US foreign policy.Research Council Member Abraham F. Lowenthal published Scholars, Policymakers, and International Affairs: Finding Common Cause with Mariano E. Bertucci. Lowenthal and Bertucci’s work tackles the gap between theory and practice, seeking to reconcile scholastic and policy-making communities that sometimes believe they have nothing to offer each other. Through case studies exploring how academic work has helped “reduce income inequality, promote democratic governance, improve gender equity, target international financial sanctions, manage the Mexico-US border, and enhance inter-American cooperation,” the authors demonstrate that scholars can and do make positive contributions to public policy. However, the book also explains why they sometimes fail to do so, particularly in the areas of counternarcotics and citizen security.Worth Reading is a list of featured readings on democracy disseminated semi-monthly by the International Forum for Democratic Studies at the National Endowment for Democracy. Many thanks to Francis Fukuyama, Azar Nafisi, Stephen Sestanovich, Abraham Lowenthal, and Mariano E. Bertucci for their hard work and insight. If you have materials you would like considered for inclusion in Worth Reading, please send us an email at ndri@ned.org.Is liberal democracy in trouble? What are Brexit's implications for the U.K....Enlightened post Cold War Initiative for Peace Building...The Chechen Struggle: Independence Won and LostWatch...Mar 19, 2015Former Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellow...In her presentation, Tay Tay discussed women’s unique...Democracy and Reconciliation in Kyrgyzstan: A Case for the Mobilization...
#Buzzfeed: How Dictators Use Zombie Election Monitors to Stay in Power#October 29, 2014#Hungry for the legitimacy that the appearance of democratic elections can provide, authoritarian regimes are increasingly employing “zombie election monitors” to remain in power. Dressed up to look like established election monitoring organizations, “zombie monitors” are organizations who are willing to ignore internationally accepted norms about what constitutes free and fair democratic elections in order to create confusion about the authenticity of an election among domestic and international audiences.A new Buzzfeed from the International Forum for Democratic Studies illustrates nine ways that undemocratic regimes call on and deploy zombie monitors to endorse staged elections and drown out the voices of credible election monitors. ::VISITThe April 2017 issue features a series of articles...Joanna Rohozinska and Vitaliy Shpak assess Ukraine's...The January 2019 issue of the Journal of Democracy...The International Forum for Democratic Studies at The...Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellow Arthur Larok will discuss the prospects for...
#11th Annual Lipset Lecture: Russia’s Political System: The Drama of Decay##FeaturingLilia Shevtsova, Senior Associate, Carnegie Moscow CenterLilia Shevtsova chairs the Russian Domestic Politics and Political Institutions Program at the Carnegie Moscow Center. She is also a senior research associate at the Russian Academy of Sciences’ Institute of Economics and an associate fellow at the Royal Institute of International Affairs (Chatham House). She is founding chair of the Davos World Economic Forum Council on Russia’s Future; a member of the Boards of the Institute for Human Sciences (Vienna), the Finnish Centre for Excellence in Russian Studies (Helsinki), the Liberal Mission Foundation, and the New Eurasia Foundation (Moscow); a member of the editorial boards of The American Interest, Pro et Contra, and the Journal of Democracy. Previously, Dr. Shevtsova was a professor of political science at the Moscow State Institute of International Relations, deputy director of the Institute for International Economic and Political Studies at the Russian Academy of Sciences, and director of the Center of Political Studies in Moscow. She has been a visiting professor at the University of California at Berkeley, Cornell University, and Georgetown University, as well as a fellow at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars. Dr. Shevtsova is the author or editor of fifteen books, including: Putin’s Russia (2005); Russia— Lost in Transition (2007); Lonely Power (2010); Change or Decay (with Andrew Wood, 2011); and Crisis: Russia and the West in the Time of Trouble (with David Kramer, 2013). In November 2014, Dr. Shevtsova will be moving to the Brookings Institution as a nonresident Senior Fellow.LocationThe Embassy of Canada 501 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC See photos from the event on Facebook.The National Endowment for Democracy would like to thank the following donors for their generous support of this event:The Seymour Martin Lipset Lecture on Democracy in the World was inaugurated in 2004 by the International Forum for Democratic Studies at the National Endowment for Democracy (NED) and the Munk School of Global Affairs of the University of Toronto as an important new forum for discourse on democracy and its progress worldwide.The lecture is named for one of the great democratic scholars and public intellectuals of the twentieth century. Seymour Martin Lipset’s scholarship on such themes as the conditions for democracy, political parties, voting behavior, extremist movements, ideologies, and public opinion constitutes one of the most prolific, insightful, and widely read bodies of work on democracy ever produced by a single author.Lipset was also one of the most important comparative analysts of the two great democracies of North America, and a strong advocate for US-Canadian cooperation. The joint US-Canadian sponsorship of the Lipset Lecture provides an opportunity for influential audiences in both countries to hear and discuss a major intellectual statement on democracy each year. It serves as a catalyst for further cooperation between Canada and the United States in the promotion of democracy and democratic ideas around the world.The Lipset Lecture is delivered in both the US and Canada. It is an intellectual platform for men and women who, like Lipset, have made important contributions to our thinking about key issues of democracy through their writings and other accomplishments.
#NED President Carl Gershman’s counterargument to Mearsheimer article#October 28, 2014#NED President Carl Gershman rejects the argument put forth in by John Mearsheimer (“Why the Ukraine Crisis is the West’s Fault” September/October 2014) in a article as it appeared in Foreign Affairs.John Mearsheimer (“Why the Ukraine Crisis Is the West’s Fault,” September/October 2014) fails to properly consider the Ukrainian people themselves. In his telling, the Ukrainians are passive pawns in the struggle between an aggressive West and a reactive Vladimir Putin. But polls have shown that a majority of Ukrainians would vote to join the European Union in a referendum, and an overwhelming majority oppose Russian interference.In describing how Western powers provoked Russia, Mearsheimer targets the National Endowment for Democracy as an example of Western social engineering in Ukraine. For proof, he quotes from a Washington Post op-ed I wrote last fall in which I called Ukraine “the biggest prize.” It should be clear to any fair reader, however, what I meant: that Ukraine was the biggest prize for Russia, not for the United States or for the NED, which is publicly funded but entirely independent of the U.S. government. The NED’s objectives in Ukraine, as everywhere, have been and continue to be to support nongovernmental organizations working to strengthen democracy. We supported democratic groups in Ukraine before President Viktor Yanukovych was elected, and we continued to support them afterward. To assert, as Mearsheimer does, that the NED “stepped up its efforts” after Yanukovych’s election because we felt the new president was undermining us misrepresents our philosophy and approach: to help indigenous democratic groups achieve their goals, not ours.Read Carl Gershman's op/ed abou the repression of Uyghurs.The authors of a new report produced by the International...NED President remarks from his speech at the Ukrainian...In this episode of Democracy Ideas, Peter Pomerantsev...Read the welcome and introductions by Carl Gershman.
#NED Welcomes Fall 2014 Fellows#October 28, 2014#WASHINGTON—The National Endowment for Democracy (NED) is pleased to announce its Fall 2014 cohort of Reagan-Fascell, Hurford Youth, and Visiting Fellows. In residence are leading democracy activists, practitioners, journalists, and scholars from Afghanistan, Azerbaijan, Burma, Ethiopia, Jordan, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Sierra Leone, Tajikistan, Vietnam, and Zimbabwe. Named in honor of NED’s two principal founders, former president Ronald Reagan and the late congressman Dante Fascell, the Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellows Program seeks to expand the knowledge, broaden the perspectives, build the capacity, and boost the morale of some of the world’s most committed and courageous democracy activists and scholars. Based at the International Forum for Democratic Studies, NED’s research and publications arm, in Washington, D.C., the program has enabled over 200 fellows from more than 80 countries to deepen their understanding of democracy and enhance their ability to work toward democratic change.In collaboration with the World Movement for Democracy, the Forum also co-sponsors the Hurford Youth Fellows Program. Funded by the Hurford Foundation and based within the secretariat of the World Movement, the Hurford program seeks to build the leadership skills, enhance the organizational talents, and harness the potential of young democracy advocates from around the world.The International Forum offers a collegial environment for fellows to take a step back from the pressures of their daily work; reflect on their experiences; conduct research and writing; compare notes with counterparts; consider lessons learned; and build ties that contribute to the development of a global network of democracy advocates. In support of international exchange, the Forum hosts an active calendar of events and facilitates connections between fellows and the academic, civic, media, and policy communities in Washington, D.C., and beyond.For media inquiries, please contact Jane Riley Jacobsen at jane@ned.org or at (202) 378-9700. To apply for a Reagan-Fascell Fellowship, click here. To apply for a Hurford Youth Fellowship, email youthfellows@ned.org. For more information on fellowship opportunities at the National Endowment for Democracy, visit www.ned.org.Ms. Maliha AlShehab | Saudi Arabia | Reagan-Fascell Fellow “Saudi Women: Status, Outlook, and Roadmap” October 2014–February 2015Ms. Maliha AlShehab is an accomplished writer and outspoken advocate for women’s rights in Saudi Arabia. A prominent social activist and community organizer with experience in the field of gender, human rights, and democracy, she has served most recently as program officer for a Washington, D.C.–based organization focusing on women’s rights. Between 2006 and 2010, she worked as a columnist for Al Watan, a leading Saudi newspaper, where her writings drew attention to the situation of women in Saudi Arabia. She is also the author of the bestselling book Saudi Woman: Image and Voice (2010), banned in Saudi Arabia due to its controversial exposure of the plight of women. During her fellowship, Ms. AlShehab is exploring ways of bringing an end to discrimination against women in Saudi Arabia and providing them with opportunities to contribute meaningfully to civil society. As part of her efforts to raise awareness within the international community and call for change, she is writing a report on gender inequality in Saudi Arabia and developing a roadmap for empowering Saudi women.Ms. Zin Mar Aung | Burma | Reagan-Fascell Fellow “Promoting Women’s Political Empowerment in Burma”  October 2014–February 2015Ms. Zin Mar Aung is co-founder of RAINFALL, a Yangon-based organization that empowers women in Burma through human-rights trainings and awareness-building at the community level. A former prisoner of conscience, she was arrested in 1998 for participating in the student-led democratic uprisings against Burma’s military regime and released eleven years later. In 2009, she formed a self-help group for ex-political prisoners and co-founded the Cultural Impact Studies Club to promote the idea that democracy is compatible with Asian culture. In 2011, she co-founded the Yangon School of Political Science, a NED-funded institution that educates young activists in the values of democracy. For her efforts to strengthen women’s rights, democratic values, and conflict resolution in Burma, she was awarded the International Women of Courage Award in 2012 by then–Secretary of State Hilary Clinton. During her fellowship, Zin Mar Aung is developing a roadmap for women’s political empowerment in Burma, with recommendations for how women may participate effectively in political life. She is also producing a training manual as a resource for women’s organizations in Burma. Mr. Umed Babakhanov | Tajikistan | Reagan-Fascell Fellow “Evolution of Political Islam in Tajikistan: From the Trenches to the Parliament–and Back?” October 2014–February 2015Mr. Umed Babakhanov is founder and editor-in-chief of Asia Plus, a leading independent media outlet operating in Tajikistan since 1995. Under Mr. Babakhanov’s direction, Asia Plus has emerged as one of the most reliable sources of information in the region, committed to strengthening the independent media sector and promoting dialogue through a range of news media, including a news agency, newspaper, FM radio, and a business magazine. In 2012, he launched “For a Tolerant Tajikistan,” an initiative that seeks to foster greater understanding between secular state institutions and the Muslim community through discussions on the role of Islam in society. In 2000, he founded an independent school of journalism and served for ten years as its first chairman. Over the past 25 years, he has been writing for Komsomolskaya Pravda, the Associated Press, the Moscow Times, Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty, Eurasianet, as well as other media, covering the civil war in Tajikistan and political developments in Central Asia. During his fellowship, Mr. Babakhanov is tracing the evolution of political Islam in Tajikistan and examining whether Islamist parties can come to power under an undemocratic, authoritarian system.Mr. Tabish Forugh | Afghanistan | Reagan-Fascell Fellow  “Strengthening Election Management Bodies in Afghanistan” October 2014–February 2015Mr. Tabish Forugh is chief of staff at the Independent Election Commission of Afghanistan (IEC), where he works to promote electoral education, build trust between the IEC and citizens, and articulate the mission of the commission. Since 2011, he has been a part of the decision-making team that has drafted electoral laws for the approval of Afghanistan’s parliament. Mr. Forugh previously served as spokesperson for the Afghanistan National Olympics Committee, where he developed communication policies and advocacy strategies for the promotion of sports diplomacy. An advocate of public participation in free and fair elections, he has written articles and given interviews on democracy, elections, and current affairs with BBC Persian Service, Channel 1, and Tolonews. During his fellowship, Mr. Forugh is preparing a set of policy recommendations for electoral reform ahead of Afghanistan’s May 2015 parliamentary and district council elections, including reforms to the IEC.Dr. Altay Goyushov | Azerbaijan | Reagan-Fascell Fellow “Secularism and Religion in Azerbaijan: Lessons from the First Azerbaijani Republic of 1918–1920” October 2014–February 2015Dr. Altay Goyushov is professor of Turkic history at Baku State University. He is also one of the leaders of the “Republican Alternative” (“REAL”) movement, which promotes liberal democratic concepts and values, and a frequent commentator on local and international media on issues relating to religion, history, and civil society in Azerbaijan. A noted scholar and public intellectual with an active social media presence, he has lectured at the Baku-based Free Thought University, a NED grantee, and has held prestigious fellowships and visiting professorships in Italy, France and the United States, including the Bourse Directeurs d’Études Associés at the Fondation de la Maison de Science de l’Homme in Paris, a Fulbright Scholarship at Georgetown University, and appointments at Sapienza-Università di Roma, UCLA, and the Institut Français d’Études Anatoliennes. During his fellowship, Dr. Goyushov is analyzing the emergence of Islam and Sunni/Shia tensions in contemporary Azerbaijan, looking at the First Azerbaijani Republic as a case study for strategies in managing tensions between secularism and political Islam.Dr. Leonid Gozman | Russia | Visiting Fellow “Social Entrepreneurship as a Way of Overcoming Russia’s Social and Political Crisis” October 2014–February 2015Dr. Leonid Gozman is president of the Union of Right Forces and former co-chairman of the Right Cause Party (2008–2011). From 2008 to 2013, he served as director of humanitarian projects at RUSNANO, a state-owned enterprise that commercializes innovations in nanotechnology, and from 1999 to 2008, he was executive board member and representative for governmental and NGO relations at Unified Energy System of Russia (RAO UES). He was previously a fellow at the Woodrow Wilson Center, and professor of psychology and Russian area studies at Dickinson College in Carlisle, Pennsylvania. An active participant in Russia’s democratic movement who has served as political advisor to Anatoly Chubais and Yegor Gaidar, he is also the author of eight books and is a lecturer at Moscow State University. During his fellowship, Dr. Gozman is exploring social entrepreneurship as a means for deepening civic engagement and democratic development in Russia.Mr. Arthur Gwagwa | Zimbabwe | Reagan-Fascell Fellow “How Civil Society Engagement Can Strengthen Democracy in Zimbabwe” October 2014–February 2015Mr. Arthur Gwagwa is a human rights attorney who heads the Zimbabwe Human Rights NGO Forum, based in London. In the nineties, he was among the first lawyers to offer pro bono representation to victims of rights violations through the Zimbabwe Lawyers for Human Rights network. In 2002, Arthur fled to the United Kingdom, into exile, when his work of representing the politically persecuted and excluded during elections and the dispossessed commercial farmers during the land invasions brought him to the adverse attention of the authorities. While based in the UK, Arthur has represented refugees at the Refugee Legal Centre and has continued advancing the cause for human rights and democracy in Zimbabwe. He is an established advocate who has worked tirelessly to ensure that all voices are heard for the creation of an inclusive society. During his fellowship, he is working on a policy document on how enhancing civil society engagement can strengthen democratic culture and electoral integrity in Zimbabwe.Ms. N’yella Rogers | Sierra Leone | Reagan-Fascell Fellow “Harnessing Social Media to Combat Corruption in Sierra Leone” October 2014–February 2015Ms. N’yella Rogers is a human rights lawyer and legal officer at C.F. Margai & Associates, a law firm based in Freetown, Sierra Leone. She has worked for several human rights organizations in Sierra Leone, including Advocaid, where she investigated cases of wrongfully convicted women on death row. As president of Fourah Bay College’s Human Rights Clinic between 2007 and 2009, she advocated for the enactment of national legislation protecting women and children and participated in the collection and analysis of primary data on women and juvenile protection, which eventually became part of Sierra Leone’s Child Rights Act of 2007. An outspoken women’s rights advocate, she won a scholarship to study international human rights law at Harvard University in 2011 and was selected to deliver the class commencement speech in 2012. Recognizing that interactive online technologies can lower barriers to citizen engagement in combating corruption, even in areas with limited internet infrastructure, Ms. Rogers is devoting her fellowship to exploring the use of an interactive technological media that would encourage citizens to utilize technology to address corruption in Sierra Leone.Dr. Negaso Solan | Ethiopia | Reagan-Fascell Fellow “The Role of Democracy in Building a Multi-Ethnic State: The Case of Ethiopia” October 2014–February 2015Dr. Negaso Solan is an esteemed statesman and scholar who has served as president of Ethiopia (1995–2001), member of the House of People’s Representatives (2005–2010), and most recently, as chair of the United for Democracy and Justice Party, one of Ethiopia’s main opposition parties (2012–2013). A life-long proponent of human rights, ethnic inclusion, and democracy, he participated in the student movement of the 1960s, led the Aira School demonstrations against the Wallaga feudal system in the 1970s, and advocated for the rights of the Oromo people, Ethiopia’s largest ethnic group. While living in Germany, Dr. Solan worked to unite the Oromo community, both internally and with other Ethiopian groups, in their struggle against military rule. Returning to his homeland in 1991, he helped to draft a new constitution, chaired the 1994 Constitutional Assembly, and signed the constitution in 1995 as first president of the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia. During his fellowship, Dr. Solan is writing an article addressing the role of democracy in settling controversies around the Ethiopian ethnic federalist system. His primary focus will be recommendations on how to build a democratic, multi-ethnic state in Ethiopia.Mr. Rami Soud | Jordan | Hurford Youth Fellow “The Role of Youth in Social Change” August–December 2014Mr. Rami Soud is vice president and director of international relations at the HIKAYA Center for Civil Society Development in Amman, Jordan. He is also director of the SMOW Center for Youth Thought, and has over five years of experience in project management and strategic planning in youth and community development initiatives. He has led a number of trainings on topics such as coalition building and youth empowerment, and recently assisted in the establishment of a community radio for youth in the MENA region. During his fellowship, Mr. Soud is organizing online discussions on youth movements and exploring how youth can best contribute to democracy promotion.Dr. Cu Huy Ha Vu | Vietnam | Reagan-Fascell Fellow “Reflections on Freedom and Democracy in Vietnam” July–December 2014Dr. Cu Huy Ha Vu is a leading constitutional scholar and legal advocate who has written widely on civil and political rights in Vietnam. Through a law firm established with his wife, Attorney Nguyen Thi Duong Ha, a leading human rights defender in her own right, Dr. Vu has challenged the ruling Communist Party’s monopoly over power and has encouraged citizens to stand up against the government’s unlawful acts. Most notable were his two lawsuits against Vietnam’s prime minister, his legal representation of disenfranchised communities and indigenous peoples, and his articles on human rights, territorial sovereignty and integrity, and proposed amendments to the Vietnamese constitution that would introduce a multi-party democratic system. For these activities, he was arrested on trumped-up charges and sentenced in 2011 to seven years’ imprisonment and three years of house arrest. Released in 2014 in the face of mounting domestic and international pressure, he continues to speak out on issues of national and international concern. During his fellowship, Dr. Vu is assessing the current state of Vietnam’s democracy movement and the vital importance of promoting human rights and the democratization of Vietnam.Contact: Jane Riley Jacobsen (202) 378-9700 jane@ned.orgJAN 23, 2014Democracy Ideas: Marc F. Plattner, "Governance, Government,...2011 Democracy AwardAcceptance Speech of Zahraa SaidIt...The authors of a new report produced by the International...A Fight for Democracy: Why Ukraine MattersNED President...The July 2018 issue features an eight-article cluster on rising illiberalism...
#Ivan Krastev writes on popular protests in new issue of the Journal of Democracy#October 28, 2014# Washington, DC — The pro-democracy demonstrations in Hong Kong are just the latest in a wave of political protests that has swept the world since late 2010. In “From Politics to Protest,” Ivan Krastev examines why people have been taking to the streets, not only where they are denied the right to freely elect their leaders (as in Hong Kong), but also in countries where they fully enjoy the right to vote. Krastev suggests that elections are losing their capacity to make voters feel that their voices are being heard, and he explores what this may mean for the future of democracy.India’s sixteenth general elections heralded a new era in the country’s politics: The Hindu-nationalist BJP won an unprecedented absolute majority in parliament, while the long-dominant Congress party suffered a stunning defeat. Four essays by leading experts explain the electoral outcome, look at the economic implications of the BJP’s victory, weigh the possibility of renewed communal violence, and give a big-picture assessment of India’s future.Indonesia held successful parliamentary elections in April and presidential elections in July. Yet the news is not all good. The parliamentary contest was marred by pervasive “money politics,” as Edward Aspinall explains in “Politics and Patronage,” and the presidential race was nearly won by Prabowo Subianto, a populist who “promised to undertake the radical and dangerous experiment of restoring Indonesia’s pre-democratic order.” In “How Jokowi Won and Democracy Survived,” Marcus Mietzner cautions that “Indonesian democracy is still vulnerable, and will be for years to come.”Elsewhere in the issue, Ghia Nodia writes on “The Revenge of Geopolitics,” part of a set of articles on “External Influence and Democratization” that also features pieces by Jakob Tolstrup and Steven Levitsky & Lucan Way; a pair of essays by João Carlos Espada and Liubomir Topaloff examine the rise of Euroskeptic parties in the EU and what it means; Richard Joseph explores the prospects for democracy in Africa through the lens of Nigeria; and Javier Corrales & Michael Penfold detail the growing trend in Latin America to relax or eliminate presidential term limits.To see the complete Table of Contents, please visit our website at www.journalofdemocracy.org.The Journal of Democracy is published quarterly in January, April, July, and October. Members of the press who wish to receive electronic access to the current issue should contact Brent Kallmer at brentk@ned.org. To subscribe to the Journal of Democracy, visit https://www.press.jhu.edu/cgi-bin/order.cgi?oc_id=32. For more information, please visit the Journal of Democracy online or e-mail us at jod@ned.org.CONTACT: Jane Riley Jacobsen jane@ned.org or (202) 378-9700A number of Latin American countries are in the midst of turmoil. Brazil has...In the January issue of the Journal of Democracy, Miriam...In 2018, a peaceful protest movement brought down Armenia’s...JuL 15, 2014Journal of Democracy July 2014 Issue: "The Maidan and...
#11th Annual Lipset Lecture titled “Russia’s Political System: The Drama of Decay,”#October 28, 2014#Washington, DC — The Eleventh Annual Seymour Martin Lipset Lecture on Democracy in the World will be held on Wednesday, October 29, 2014, 6:00 p.m., at the Embassy of Canada in Washington, DC, featuring Lilia Shevtsova, Senior Associate at the Carnegie Moscow Center. Dr. Shevtsova will deliver a lecture entitled “Russia’s Political System: The Drama of Decay.”In her remarks, Dr. Shevtsova will address the nature of the “new civilizational challenge” currently facing liberal democracies and will examine the key characteristics of the Russian system and the reasons for its failed democratic transformation. Dr. Shevtsova also promises to delve into the survival mechanisms of the Russian system, the implications of the regime’s ability to adapt, and the role of the West in this Russian drama.Lilia Shevtsova chairs the Russian Domestic Politics and Political Institutions Program at the Carnegie Moscow Center. She is also a senior research associate at the Russian Academy of Sciences’ Institute of Economics and an associate fellow at the Royal Institute of International Affairs (Chatham House). She is founding chair of the Davos World Economic Forum Council on Russia’s Future; a member of the Boards of the Institute for Human Sciences (Vienna), the Finnish Centre for Excellence in Russian Studies (Helsinki), the Liberal Mission Foundation, and the New Eurasia Foundation (Moscow); a member of the editorial boards of The American Interest, Pro et Contra, and the Journal of Democracy.The Seymour Martin Lipset Lecture on Democracy in the World was inaugurated in 2004 by the International Forum for Democratic Studies at the National Endowment for Democracy (NED) and the Munk School for Global Affairs at the University of Toronto as an important new forum for discourse on democracy and its progress worldwide. The lecture is delivered each year in Toronto, Canada and Washington, DC. The lecture is published each year in NED’s Journal of Democracy.The lecture is named for one of the great democratic scholars and public intellectuals of the twentieth century. Seymour Martin Lipset’s scholarship on such themes as the conditions for democracy, political parties, voting behavior, extremist movements, ideologies, and public opinion constitutes one of the most prolific, insightful, and widely read bodies of work on democracy ever produced by a single author.Lipset was also one of the most important comparative analysts of the two great democracies of North America, and a strong advocate for US-Canadian cooperation. The joint US-Canadian sponsorship of the Lipset Lecture provides an opportunity for influential audiences in both countries to hear and discuss a major intellectual statement on democracy each year. It serves as a catalyst for further cooperation between Canada and the United States in the promotion of democracy and democratic ideas around the world.This event is open to the media and journalists interested in covering should contact Jane Riley Jacobsen by email jane@ned.org to register.In his presentation, Leonid Gozman demonstrated how the particularities of Russia's...“Religion and Democracy: Allies or Antagonists?”...In an article published by The American Interest, Christopher...The International Forum for Democratic Studies at...The authors of a new report produced by the International...Read Carl Gershman's opening remarks at IRI's Democracy Backlash Seminar.
#Forum 2000: "Democracy and Its Discontents"#October 21, 2014#Christopher Walker moderates a panel on “Is Democracy in Decline?” at Forum 2000. (Photo courtesy of Forum 2000)More than 200 civil society activists, researchers, politicians, journalists, and business representatives from around the world gathered to discuss “Democracy and Its Discontents: A Quarter Century After the Iron Curtain and Tiananmen” at the 18th Annual Forum 2000 Conference in Prague, Czech Republic on October 12-15, 2014. Organized in memory of former Czech President Vaclav Havel, delegates evaluated the progress of democracy and examined the challenges that democratic movements now face, including the growing pushback against democracy by authoritarian regimes.The International Forum for Democratic Studies helped organize two conference panels reflecting on the current state of democracy and the global resurgence of authoritarianism. Forum Executive Director Christopher Walker and Research Council Co-Chair Marc F. Plattner also spoke on a number of panels, for which video and event summaries are available below.Read the Event SummaryPanelists:Moderator:Read the Event SummaryPanelists:Moderator:Read the Event SummaryPanelists:Moderator:Read the Event SummaryPanelists:Moderator:Read the Event SummaryPanelists: Moderator:Read the Event SummaryPanelists:Moderator:Youth Activism in Russia:Can a New Generation Make a Difference?Download...Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellow Arthur Larok will discuss...Congressmember Karen Bass was re-elected to her second...Shanthi Kalathil testified in front of the House Foreign...Mr. Ismail Alexandrani is a freelance journalist, socio-political...The Chechen Struggle: Independence Won and LostWatch full event :: moreFeaturing...
#NED announces inaugural cohort of Penn Kemble Youth Fellows#October 21, 2014#NED is proud to announce its inaugural cohort of Penn Kemble Youth Forum on Democracy Fellows. Named for one of the democracy movement’s most committed activists and strategists, the Forum is an opportunity for mentorship, networking, and education for young professionals who share Kemble’s commitment to advancing democracy around the world.Through the Forum, which will run this year from October 2014 to June 2015, these young leaders will engage with leading foreign policy experts, democracy practitioners, civil society activists and former government officials. Fellows will also participate in a range of other events. This year’s cohort is made up of 27 talented young professionals from government, non-profits, and the private sector.The Forum is organized and sponsored by the National Endowment for Democracy with the assistance of distinguished advisory committee of scholars and practitioners. Read Joshua Muravchik’s article on Penn Kemble here. Merchants of Modernity: Business, Development, and Democracy in Developing CountriesView...It was with deep sadness that the Board and staff of..."John McCain was one of the great freedom fighters...As published in The Tibet Post on Mar. 24th, 2015.New...Marco Rubio congratulates the activists and honorees...On August 4–6, 2014, NED seized the opportunity provided by the U.S.-Africa...
#Worth Reading: Journal of Democracy October 2014 Issue#October 15, 2014#This issue of Worth Reading features three freely-accessible articles published in the October 2014 Journal of Democracy. The first article, “From Politics to Protest” by International Forum Research Council Member Ivan Krastev, examines the significance of the mass protests that occurred in seventy countries over the past five years. The second, “The Revenge of Geopolitics” by International Forum Research Council Member Ghia Nodia, explains how divergent perspectives on the relationship between democracy promotion and power politics contributed to the crisis in Ukraine. Finally, the third article, “How Jokowi Won and Democracy Survived” by Marcus Mietzner, describes the recent Indonesian presidential election and its significance for democracy in that country.In “From Politics to Protest,” International Forum Research Council Member Ivan Krastev explores the “politics of disruption”–the proliferation of global protests led by citizens demanding neither revolution nor reform. Krastev notes that these “rebels without a cause” live in societies where elections have become “celebrations of powerlessness.” Citizens and politicians alike increasingly believe that government is incapable of meeting modern challenges. As a result, electoral stakes appear so low that they no longer motivate average voters nor moderate radical ones. This lack of electoral “drama” has had several marked effects on contemporary governance, including fewer majority governments, shorter incumbencies, the permanent mobilization of opposition parties, and the rise of protest politics. As a result, Krastev writes, “The new political man has no illusions about the effectiveness of government, but he nonetheless believes that the people have a responsibility to control it.” In his view, this new conception of citizen-state relations marks the end of faith in political reform and revolution, leaving protest as the only mechanism through which citizens demand accountability.In “The Revenge of Geopolitics,” International Forum Research Council Member Ghia Nodia writes that the current crisis in Ukraine can be attributed to competing perspectives on the relevance of democracy promotion to geopolitics. The West, Nodia explains, has traditionally separated these ideas: while Western countries believe that a “Kantian peace” is beneficial to their security, they also recognize that a pragmatic foreign policy requires normal relations with some autocrats. However, Russia and many other authoritarian regimes see no distinction between democracy promotion and geopolitics–to embattled autocrats, the spread of democracy is a regime-threat to be actively resisted at home and abroad. Pro-democracy elites in the states between Russia and the West tend to see democracy promotion as a geopolitical force beneficial to their “European identity,” which Nodia believes played a leading role in Eastern Europe’s transition to democracy. The difference between these three perspectives explains Western surprise at Russia’s hostile reaction to the Eastern Partnership, which the West considered a non-threatening economic initiative. In the wake of the Russian invasion of Ukraine, Nodia writes, there is “no safe way to promote democracy in areas where it is still controversial. Advancing the democratic cause is an enterprise that is hostile and threatening to autocrats, and they will fight back.”In “How Jokowi Won and Democracy Survived,” Marcus Mietzner describes the recent Indonesian Presidential election, which pitted Prabowo Subianto, the populist, anti-democracy former-son-in-law of former-President Suharto, against Joko Widodo (often called “Jokowi”), the governor of Jakarta. Jokowi, a technocrat from a working-class background, narrowly defeated Prabowo despite vote-rigging and machine-politics in the latter’s favor. While Prabowo campaigned on a platform of populism and a return to the country’s authoritarian 1945 constitution, Mietzner explains that Indonesia’s commitment to democracy was stronger than Prabowo believed. This prevented Prabowo from using machine politics, vote-buying, and populism to defeat Jokowi, whose popularity with working class Indonesians, grassroots-fundraising strategy, and defense of democracy brought his supporters out in large numbers on election day. As a result, Mietzner writes, democracy in the world’s most populous Muslim-majority country was safeguarded–but Jokowi’s close margin of victory demonstrates its continuing vulnerability. Worth Reading is a list of featured readings on democracy disseminated semi-monthly by the International Forum for Democratic Studies at the National Endowment for Democracy. Many thanks to Ivan Krastev, Ghia Nodia, and Marcus Mietzner for their research and insights; thanks also to the Journal of Democracy editorial staff for their work in putting together this most recent issue. If you have materials you would like considered for inclusion in Worth Reading, please send us an email at ndri@ned.org.Apr 15, 2014 Journal of Democracy April 2014 Issue: "Shifting...In a widely discussed article in the July 2016 issue...The April 2017 issue features a series of articles...Democratization in Africa: Progress and RetreatA...Over the past decade, illiberal powers have become emboldened and gained influence...
#The National Endowment for Democracy and support for democracy in Hong Kong#October 14, 2014#In the wake of recent pro-democracy demonstrations in Hong Kong, state controlled Chinese news outlets have published erroneous reports that the National Endowment for Democracy (NED) has played a central role in the protests.The projects that the Endowment has supported over the years in Hong Kong have focused on encouraging good governance, supporting informed citizen engagement in the political process, and protecting human rights. NED projects for Hong Kong totaled $695,031 in 2013 – brief descriptions of these projects are available on the NED website and include two Hong Kong specific projects and one regional project. Reports that NED Vice President Louisa Greve met with organizers of the Hong Kong protests are inaccurate, and while the National Endowment for Democracy is supportive of the goals of universal suffrage and genuine democracy, no leader of the current protests has sought assistance or counsel from the NED. On April 2, 2014 Ms. Greve moderated a panel hosted by NED featuring prominent democracy advocates Martin Lee and Anson Chan, and the full video of that event is available online. This was one of many appearances and meetings Lee and Chan scheduled during their trip to the U.S. in the spring of 2014 to discuss Hong Kong’s future. While Mr. Lee and Ms. Chan are leading democratic figures in Hong Kong, they are neither leaders nor organizers of the current protests; neither are they grantees of the NED. Lee was honored with NED’s annual Democracy Award in 1997 in recognition of his work to support freedom of the press, full democratic elections, the rule of law, and human rights in Hong Kong.The Endowment makes more than 1400 annual grants in nearly 90 countries, and NED’s objectives in Hong Kong, as everywhere, have been and continue to be the support of nongovernmental organizations working to strengthen democratic values, processes, and institutions.China at the Tipping Point?Andrew J. Nathan Class of 1919 Professor of...Harry Harding presently holds a dual appointment as...Around the world, governments are devising new and...Martin Lee, longtime leader of Hong Kong's Democracy...
#Journal of Democracy July 2014 Issue: "The Maidan and Beyond"#October 10, 2014#The July 2014 issue features a collection of eight essays on the “The Maidan and Beyond” which explore the causes and features of Ukraine’s Euromaidan protests and examine the challenges that Ukraine will need to address as the country works to achieve lasting democratic reforms.The Forum organized a panel discussion in July 2014 which featured several Journal of Democracy authors discussing the evolution of Ukraine’s political system leading up to the Euromaidan protests, the role of civil society, the problem of corruption, and the impact of the protests on political culture. Read Anders Aslund’s article on “Oligarchs, Corruption, and European Integration” and Nadia Diuk’s essay on “Finding Ukraine.” Other freely accessible articles from the July 2014 issue include:Explore the complete table of contents for the July 2014 issue. ::VISITFor more than 20 years, the Journal of Democracy has been a leading voice in the conversation about government by consent and its place in the world. The Journal is published for the International Forum for Democratic Studies at the National Endowment for Democracy by the Johns Hopkins University Press and full access is available to subscribers through Project MUSE. What are the key challenges facing India as the world's largest democracy marks...OCT 15, 2015Worth Reading: Journal of Democracy October...Ronald J. Deibert and Xiao Qiang discussed the multifaceted...Over the past decade, illiberal powers have become..."Media is rapidly changing form and function, forcing political leaders to quickly...
#Francis Fukuyama on "The Governance Agenda & Democratic Development"#October 6, 2014#Journal of Democracy Editorial Board member and NED Board Member Francis Fukuyama shared findings from his new book, Political Order and Political Decay: From the Industrial Revolution to the Globalization of Democracy at the International Forum for Democratic Studies on October 6, 2014. Reflecting on the current “crisis of global order” and its implications for democracy around the world, Prof. Fukuyama argued:“The central dividing line in world politics is no longer strictly speaking authoritarianism versus democracy. I would say that one of the bigger dividing lines is actually the existence of a modern, coherent, impersonal state which is possessed by a relatively small number of countries around the world, and states that are corrupt—basically rent-seeking coaltions of self-interested elites that want to use state power for their own personal gain—and I think that is really the issue in many places. I think many of the weaknesses of democracy do not have to do with the weaknesses of democratic institutions…what we don’t have is a mechanism for helping states achieve a degree of state modernity in terms of this impartial, effective kind of state.”Learn more about the event, “The Governance Agenda and Democratic Development.The October 2018 issue of the Journal of Democracy features a seven-article...Read Carl Gershman's remarks at the Penn Kemble Fellows...Eight of the world’s leading public intellectuals...REMARKS OF NED PRESIDENT CARL GERSHMAN AT THE PRESENTATION OF THE DEMOCRACY...
#Worth Reading (Sept. 30, 2014): Perspectives on Politics Debates Political Science, Foresight, and Popular Protests#September 29, 2014#This issue of Worth Reading highlights a symposium featured in the June 2014 Perspectives on Politics. The main article, “Explaining the Unexpected: Political Science and the Surprises of 1989 and 2011” by Marc Morjé Howard and Meir R. Walters, is available here, free of charge. This article received three responses: from Eva Bellin, and Marc Lynch, and International Forum for Democratic Studies Research Council Member Ellen Lust. Their responses are summarized below and can be accessed through any academic journal archive or database containing Perspectives on Politics. Finally, a counter-response by Howard and Walters is available here.In “Explaining the Unexpected: Political Science and the Surprises of 1989 and 2011,” Marc Morjé Howard and Meir R. Walters examine why most scholarship prior to the fall of the Berlin Wall or the Arab Spring “suggested… the persistence of Soviet-type systems and stable leadership successions in nepotistic Arab autocracies.” Rather than asking why political scientists failed to predict the fall of autocratic regimes, the authors describe how the marginalization of “questions that were not obviously tied to regime change or ‘modernizing’ reform” left political scientists “ill-equipped to explain the uprisings.” In the study of the communist world, they argue that the two competing paradigms, Sovietology and modernization theory, each prioritized the study of elite politics over that of mass politics. When the regimes fell, political scientists began to argue that communist regimes’ failure to modernize made their decline inevitable, thereby “reducing explanations of popular mobilization and revolutionary movements to a mere phase in a transition towards institutional democracy.”Similarly, Howard and Walters argue that in the Middle Eastern context, “a continued overemphasis on democratization (or its absence) risks overlooking questions about how the uprisings unfold that may not be tied to regime change. It also minimizes the significance of popular mobilization and everyday forms of political contestation as issues worthy of study in their own right.” While the authors stress that questions of regime type and institutional design are worth studying, they argue that a strict focus on these issues has limited “the types of questions that scholars ask, and how they conceptualize problems tied to political repression, participation, and deliberation.”In the same issue of Perspectives on Politics, three prominent scholars of Arab-world politics published responses to Howard and Walters. Eva Bellin’s response notes that “surprise is an intrinsic fact of political life” and that mass uprisings will always be surprising regardless of what sort of analyses political scientists conduct. The second response, by Research Council Member Ellen Lust, argues that Howard and Walters’ reading of the literature on Arab world politics is selective, that pre-Arab Spring scholars did not argue that “regime breakdown was impossible” but rather focused on how these regimes were sustained, and that scholars have and will continue to study “a wide range of issues that extend far beyond democratization.” The third response, by Marc Lynch, maintains that “the survival of most Arab regimes in the face of protests and the resurgence of the old regime in Egypt suggests the continuing relevance of attention to the power of these authoritarian structures.”In their response to the above authors, Howard and Walters’ make three main points. First, they argue that while scholarship on the Arab world is diverse, “major tensions” exist within the field and that “much of comparative politics continues to study authoritarianism primarily as the absence of democratization.” Second, they emphasize that the common focus on regime stability before the uprisings “is not merely reflective of a failure of prediction, but also a manifestation of theoretical blind spots.” Finally, Howard and Walters note that many scholars’ focus on authoritarianism “cannot accommodate a reality in which the sites of salient political and social conflict are often not directly related to regime type,” stressing that “the uprisings reveal a much broader set of struggles.”Worth Reading is a list of featured readings on democracy disseminated semi-monthly by the International Forum for Democratic Studies at the National Endowment for Democracy. Many thanks to Marc Morjé Howard for bringing this symposium to our attention and for his contributions to the issue, as well as to Meir R. Walters, Eva Bellin, Ellen Lust, and Marc Lynch for their research and insight. If you have materials that you would like to be considered for inclusion in Worth Reading, please send us an email at ndri@ned.org.
#Marc F. Plattner on the Transitions Debate: Waves vs. Clusters#September 18, 2014#Journal of Democracy coeditor Marc F. Plattner wrote the following reply in response to a recent blog post published by political scientist Jay Ulfelder on Dart Throwing Chimp.Jay Ulfelder’s thoughtful critique of my Journal of Democracy essay “The End of the Transitions Era” makes some interesting points, and there are a number of specific matters about which we agree. Nonetheless, I find his larger critique to be unpersuasive. Our disagreements, all having to do with “waves” of democratization, can be divided into two parts—those about the past and those about the future.Regarding the past, Ulfelder rightly notes that I emphasize the distinction between the two sets of countries that make up Huntington’s First Wave (1828 – 1926) of democratization: 1) the “dozen or so European and European-settler countries that had already succeeded in establishing a fair degree of freedom and rule of law, and then moved into the democratic column by gradually extending the suffrage”; and 2) “countries that became democratic after World War I, many of them new nations born from the midst of the European empires defeated and destroyed during the war.” I would not object in principle to calling these two separate “waves,” but given the currency still enjoyed by Huntington’s categorizations (especially the Third Wave), it seems to me futile to insist on this.Ulfelder himself accepts the “coherence” of Huntington’s Second Wave (1943-62), which occurred in the aftermath of World War II. He argues, however, that Huntington’s Third Wave (1974 -2000) should be divided in two, separating off the southern European and Latin American cases of the 1970s and 1980s from the postcommunist cases that began in 1989 and the African cases that began shortly thereafter. Here I cannot agree with him–and not only because of the wide acceptance of Huntington’s scheme. In the first place, Ulfelder simply omits important transitions in other regions in the mid-to-late 1980s that made the Third Wave clearly global—especially the Philippines, Pakistan, and South Korea. Second, his categorization ignores the fact that several key Latin American countries, including Chile, Nicaragua, and Mexico, did not make their democratic transitions until after 1989. It makes little sense, in my view, to try to designate as two separate “waves” groups of democratic transitions that occurred so close to each other in time and in some cases overlapped. Moreover, as I stated in my original essay, I think one can find some specific ways in which the East European transitions were influenced by the Spanish example, and that even more important was the overall impact that the global democratic resurgence had on decaying regimes in the communist world. The downfall of European communism did not occur in an ideological vacuum.In looking to the future, Ulfelder relies heavily on substituting the notion of a “cluster” of democratic transitions for that of a “wave.” A cluster seems to refer to a set of countries in a particular region that, thanks to their reciprocal influence on one another, democratize in a limited period of time. Based on this concept, Ulfelder points to three regions that offer prospects for future “clusters” of democratic transitions: the Middle East and North Africa, East Asia, and Eurasia (i.e., the former Soviet Union). These are indeed the three regions where most of the world’s nondemocratic regimes are to be found, and I would not rule out the possibility that democratic change could occur in any of them. But I would be very surprised if events in one of these regions were to trigger democratic transitions in the others. I also fear that today democratic backsliding elsewhere is a more likely prospect than democratic advances in any of these three regions.Ulfelder engages in a bit of sleight-of-hand at the end of his blog post by reintroducing the word “wave” to mean what he had previously redefined as a “cluster.” This enables him to conclude that “contra Plattner, there’s plenty of room left in the system for fresh waves of democratization.” I would agree that plenty of room is left for democratization—that follows simply from the fact that there remain a large number of nondemocratic countries. But in the decade ahead I doubt if we will see even any significant clusters of democratic change, let alone a global wave. And I stand by my claim that the last quarter of the twentieth century witnessed a truly global wave of democratization whose like we will probably never see again.In anticipation of celebrating the 25th anniversary issue in January 2015, the...Twentieth Anniversary Celebration - Journal of DemocracyDemocracy's...OCT 15, 2015Worth Reading: Journal of Democracy October...The July 2018 issue features an eight-article cluster...Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellow Martin Krygier critiqued...The Embassy of Canada and The National Endowment for Democracy invite you to...
#NED Hosts Africa Civil Society Conference#September 18, 2014#On August 4–6, 2014, NED seized the opportunity provided by the U.S.-Africa Leaders’ Summit to host a major African Civil Society Conference, bringing together nearly 100 leading democracy and human rights activists from over 30 African nations to discuss how to address the most critical challenges to democracy in Africa today. Watch the video summary.  The ambitious conference, titled “Toward an Action Plan for Democracy,” consisted of a day of intensive private consultations by civil society task force groups, followed by a day-long public conference in the U.S. House of  Representatives where each task force presented its findings and recommendations to an audience of more than 300, including many from the African diaspora, policy experts, and members of Congress.   The meeting received generous support from Facebook and was planned in cooperation with NED’s  four core Institutes (IRI, NDI, CIPE and the Solidarity Center) as well as the Constituency for Africa, the Paris-based International Center for Human Rights, the Robert F. Kennedy Center for Justice and Human Rights, Freedom House, The Bridges Institute, and The Foundation for Democracy in Africa..On August 5, the African participants met in six different working groups at NED to discuss and agree upon recommendations covering the following areas: human rights, good governance and accountability, elections, free media, conflict and security, and civil society challenges.  The process was participatory and inclusive, and at the public conference the following day in the U.S. Congress, each of the working groups  presented  and discussed its recommendations and  responded to questions and comments  from the audience.The public conference on August 6, which was attended by several hundred members of the African diaspora and others interested in Africa policy, was opened by NED Chairman Martin Frost, and was address by four Members of Congress: NED Board member Rep. Karen Bass (D-CA), who played a pivotal role during the entire African Leaders Summit; House Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer (D-MD); Rep. Chris Smith (R-NJ), who chairs the HFAC Subcommittee on Africa, Global Health, and Human Rights; and Rep. Brad Sherman (D-CA), also a member of HFAC. The recommendations in the Action Plan were addressed to African governments, the international community, and the U.S. government, as well as to African civil society, and stressed the importance of respect for human rights, good governance, peace, and freedom of speech and assembly. They underscored the intrinsic value of democracy, as well as its importance in enabling economic development, trade, security, and the other issues that were the focus of the President’s Summit. A long list of concrete actions was proposed, including the mobilization of a pan-African network of civil society activists to carry forward the recommendations of the conference. NED president Carl Gershman closed the conference, appealing for solidarity with the many courageous activists whose lives and freedom are sometimes endangered due to their work. Immediately following the conference, the Center for Strategic and International Studies hosted a reception in partnership with CSIS and Freedom House to honor civil society in Africa.The Conference was a significant boost for African civil society activists, with many commenting on how it strengthened their collective voice in Africa and gave needed balance to the trade-and-investment focus of the governmental Summit.  Many associated themselves with the World Movement for Democracy’s Africa Democracy Forum (ADF), and efforts are already underway to build and reinforce the ADF, strengthen its secretariat, and find financial support for it.  The conference also expressed its strong solidarity with the Angolan journalist (and former NED Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellow) Rafael Marques de Morais. Morais was at the conference despite being indicted in Luanda two weeks previously for defamation because of his book Blood Diamonds, which documents the corruption by senior military leaders in the diamond mining areas of Lundas Norte in Angola. His trial is expected to take place in September, and democracy supporters everywhere will be following closely. The conference closed with participants cheering, “Hands Off Rafael!”Although there is considerable follow-up work to come in the months ahead, the conference has already made an impact. It greatly heightened the discussion about democracy and human rights in Africa around the Leaders’ Summit; it galvanized a pan-African network of civil society activists; and it produced a plan of action that will serve as a benchmark and blueprint for future democratic efforts in Africa.  Watch the NED video summary of the Africa Civil Society conference>>Civil Society key to Africa’s development, democratization, at Democracy DigestAfrica Summit 2014: Challenges to the Media Sector, at The SourceAfrica Summit 2014: Recommendations for the Media Sector, at The Source   The July 2019 issue of the Journal of Democracy features a cluster of six articles...Dean Jackson of the International Forum for Democratic...Remarks given at the "Civic Education and Democracy...Current events suggest that Angola today faces an economic...In order to contribute to the spread of correct information on both the political...
#Ukraine Leaders Recognized at M100 Sanssouci Colloquium#September 16, 2014#International representatives from politics, media, academia, and civil society gathered in Potsdam, Germany to discuss the future of journalism and media freedom in the tenth annual M100 Sanssouci Colloquium media conference on September 12, 2014.Among the conference’s activities, a special media award was given to the Ukrainian NGO, YanukovychLeaks, for their work recovering thousands of documents that former Ukrainian President Viktor Yanukovych attempted to destroy before he fled Ukraine. Forum Executive Director Christopher Walker delivered the following remarks in recognition of the group’s efforts to shed light on corruption in Ukraine:Ladies and gentlemen, it is a particular honor to be able to recognize such an important and unique initiative that is so critically helping Ukrainian society in its struggle to escape corrupt governance – and to enable a Ukraine that is whole and free.The honor of this special award is being bestowed on YanukovychLeaks for its “outstanding achievement of salvaging an enormous number of documents, systematizing and analyzing them, and then publishing them on the YanukovychLeaks website, thereby exposing the system of corruption operated by the former President.”I would like to stress three points in recognizing YanukovychLeaks.The first relates to the corruption is at the heart of Ukraine’s challenge to reform and which the YanukovychLeaks project has documented in such an important way.I would like to take this opportunity to recognize two of the courageous YanukovychLeaks representatives who are here with us this evening: Natalie Sedletzka and Kateryna Kapliuk.Deeply entrenched corruption has been a profound challenge since Ukraine achieved its independence more than two decades ago. But in the four years that he was in power, former President Viktor Yanukovych took the country’s corruption to new heights, enabling the theft of an extraordinary amount of Ukraine’s public wealth.As the analyst Anders Aslund has observed, nearly $40 billion was stolen from the state while Yanukovych was in power. And this figure may well be an underestimation. This massive corrupt enterprise directed wealth primarily to the president, his relatives, and a limited circle of businessmen around the president.The vast web of corruption used a variety of elaborate methods to divert state resources. These included lucrative schemes connected to the natural gas market. They also included the manipulation of large infrastructure projects, such as those connected with the Euro 2012 soccer championship. More generally, the government engaged in a range of other schemes to put public wealth into private hands.This systematic corruption has ravaged Ukraine and has been central to its population’s determination to steer a different course.These ambitions have been terribly complicated by the conflict instigated by Russia in Ukraine, which among other things has forced Ukraine’s authorities to divert attention from urgently needed domestic reforms.This brings me to my second point. The crucial issues of governance and corruption largely have been obscured by Russia’s invasion of Ukraine and the extraordinary information campaign – or, better said, disinformation campaign – waged by Russia.Because of this, the central story of Ukraine’s aspirations for an accountable governance system based on the rule of law, and which combats corruption, has been overshadowed by the conflict that continues to tear at the fabric of Ukrainian society.At a time when so much of the discussion about Ukraine is manufactured through spin and the twisting of information, YanukoychLeaks has the important virtue of laying bare the corrupt system through documentation of hard evidence.In this respect, YanukovychLeaks is so deeply valuable because it is real. It is evidence based. It is not a creation of state media propagandists. It is, in fact, precisely the sort of information that never sees the light of day in closed authoritarian systems.The governance systems that dominate in the countries to the east of the European Union operate on the basis of keeping their citizens in the dark, preventing them from understanding how public policies are determined and how state wealth is used.During its time in power, the previous government in Ukraine was steadily working to close public space and to govern in the darkness.And the people around the former president who heaped documents by the thousands into the water behind the presidential residence – which was really a palace – had the aim of relegating these documents to the bottom of the river where they would disappear into the darkness in the same way that so much of Ukraine’s public wealth has vanished.By taking action quickly, skillfully, and with great determination, YanukovychLeaks saved so many of these documents to ensure that they would they would see the light of day and be available for public scrutiny.My third and final point is that YanokoychLeaks represents something bigger. Its work is fundamentally about transparency, accountability, and ensuring that citizens can have a say in their country’s governance. In this regard, YanukoychLeaks serves as an emblem of Ukraine’s aspirations to steer a European course.Not long ago, the Wall Street Journal’s Matthew Kaminski eloquently wrote that “since the Cold War ended, only those fortunate enough to choose their political systems and allies have found peace and stability in Europe. Ukraine wants to join them.”In the spirit of the work being done by YanukovychLeaks, let us work toward this goal.For all of the reasons I have mentioned, YanukovychLeaks is greatly deserving of this recognition and special award.The Roadmap to Democracy in UkraineA roundtable discussion...The International Forum for Democratic Studies at The...Dean Jackson of the International Forum for Democratic...Keeping Democratic Hopes Alive in Russia and Ukraine:...
#Worth Reading (Sept. 17, 2014): APSA Panel on Anti-Corruption Research#September 16, 2014#In “Of Virtuous Cycles: Modeling Control of Corruption Beyond Modernization,” International Forum Research Council Member Alina Mungiu-Pippidi advocates for a holistic model to explain how contemporary “high achievers” in anti-corruption successfully implemented reform. After briefly reviewing the literature on anti-corruption, Mungiu-Pippidi concludes that modernization increases opportunities for corruption, as well as corruption’s potential spoils. A holistic model, she writes, must take into account these factors as well as constraints upon them (including a free press, an independent judiciary, societal norms, and a robust civil society). Using this model to analyze the political economy of seven “high-achieving” countries (Botswana, Chile, Estonia, Georgia, South Korea, Taiwan, and Uruguay), Mungiu-Pippidi finds great variation in how constraints eventually came to outweigh opportunities–but notes that in all cases, a great shift in the equilibrium between these factors was required.In “Corruption and Governance Improvement in Uruguay,” Daniel Buquet and Rafael Piñeiro explain how fifteen years of progress in Uruguay have made that country an anti-corruption leader in the region. While Uruguay has typically performed very well on anti-corruption indices, its political parties were organized through political particularism for much of the country’s history. Uruguay’s import-substitution economy began to stagnate in the 1950’s, eventually culminating in a military coup in 1973. When the country reverted to civilian rule in 1985, Uruguay’s “traditional political parties” were united behind pro-market reforms but were forced to compete with a leftist alternative known as the Frente Amplio. The ideological competition between these two groups eventually replaced particularism as the organizing principle for Uruguayan politics, culminating in the passage of several anti-corruption and political-party finance reform laws. The authors maintain that these reforms solidified, rather than caused, Uruguay’s transition to an open access regime.In “Costa Rica’s Anti-Corruption Trajectory: Strengths and Limitations,” Bruce M. Wilson explores the sharp rise in Costa Rican citizens’ perception of corruption. Wilson suggests that several high-profile accusations of corruption in the Costa Rican media have highlighted practices of behind-the-scenes influence-trading that have always existed in Costa Rica. While systemic corruption problems exist in Costa Rica, especially in campaign finance, Wilson emphasizes the general strength of the country’s anti-corruption instruments (including its investigative press). However, he also notes that Central American drug cartels operating within Costa Rica are overwhelming the country’s under-trained and under-equipped police force and pose a serious threat to its progress.Finally, in “Transition from a Limited Access Order to an Open Access Order: The Case of South Korea,” Jong-Sung You offers a new take on South Korea’s transition from a limited access order to an open access order. You begins his analysis with the 1950’s land reform effort under the Syngman Rhee regime, which was overthrown by Park Chung-hee in 1960. Most analyses consider the Rhee regime “predatory” and credit the Park regime with implementing South Korea’s developmental state. You, however, credits the Rhee regime with a land reform package that created a relatively equal society, led to a state monopoly on violence, encouraged an educated citizenry, and ensured no entrenched economic elite could challenge state authority. These accomplishments set the stage for Park’s authoritarianism but also for the use of import-substitution as a path to export-led growth. Because the export economy forced the South Korean government to reward export performance rather than mere political patronage, the state was unable to regulate the private sector and protect South Korea from the 1997 Asian financial crisis. It was this event that led South Korea to complete its gradual transition to an open access order, supporting what You calls the theory of “double balance”–the idea that open access economies do not function well under authoritarian regimes, and that democratic regimes do not function well in limited access economies.Worth Reading is a list of featured readings on democracy disseminated semi-monthly by the International Forum for Democratic Studies at the National Endowment for Democracy. Many thanks to the Alina Mungiu-Pippidi, Daniel Buquet, Rafael Piñeiro, Bruce M. Wilson, and Jong-Sung You for their insight and analysis; thanks also to the American Political Science Association for hosting the panel at which these papers were presented. If you have materials you would like featured in Worth Reading, please send us an email.2018 Democracy Award will honors civil society movement for human rights and...Denys Bihus leads TOM 14, a group of professional investigative...The National Endowment for Democracy is proud to stand...2018 Democracy Award will honors civil society movement...Alina Mungiu-Pippidi is professor of policy analysis...2018 Democracy Award will honors civil society movement for human rights and...
#Journal of Democracy April 2014 Issue#August 18, 2014#The April 2014 issue features a collection of seven essays exploring the “Shifting Tides in South Asia” in Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, the Maldives, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka.In “Democratic Parliamentary Monarchies,” Alfred Stepan, the late Juan J. Linz, and Juli F. Minoves draw attention to the role that monarchies have played in the evolution of democracy. The authors contend that the European experience shows how Arab monarchies might aid or resist democratic development.In “Ethnic Power Sharing: Three Big Problems,” Donald L. Horowitz delves into the key challenges facing ethnic power-sharing arrangements, based on his presentation given for the2013 Seymour Martin Lipset Lecture on Democracy in the World. NED Board Member and Ambassador Princeton N. Lyman looks at Nelson Mandela’s impact on South African democracy and identifies his most important lesson: the key role of strong, indigenous democracy movements in  “Mandela’s Legacy at Home and Abroad.”In addition, the April issue also includes Arch Puddington’s analysis of the Freedom House survey for 2013, and two essays on Zimbabwe by Charles Mangongera and Adrienne Labas.See the table of contents for the April 2014 issue. ::VISITFor more than 20 years, the Journal of Democracy has been a leading voice in the conversation about government by consent and its place in the world. The Journal is published for the International Forum for Democratic Studies at the National Endowment for Democracy by the Johns Hopkins University Press and full access is available to subscribers through Project MUSE. The April 2018 edition of the Forum newsletter explores the latest issue of...The International Forum for Democratic Studies asked...OCT 15, 2015Worth Reading: Journal of Democracy October...At a panel discussion celebrating the publication of...In the July 2018 issue of the Journal of Democracy,...The January 2019 issue of the Journal of Democracy features a set of four articles...
#NED mourns the passing of Amb. Terence Todman#August 18, 2014#It was with deep sadness that the Board and staff of NED learned of the death of Ambassador Terence Todman, who passed away on August 13, 2014, at the age of 88. Ambassador Todman, who served on the Endowment’s Board of Directors for nine years, provided invaluable guidance in his role as the Board expert for NED grantmaking in the Latin America & Caribbean region.“He was a man of great dignity, a devoted patriot, and a champion of the cause of democracy for all,” said NED President Carl Gershman. “He will be sorely missed and long remembered.” NED extends its deepest sympathies to the family and friends of Ambassador Todman and to all those whose lives he touched throughout his remarkable career.
#Laith Kubba Talks About Current Political Developments in Iraq on PBS’ “NewsHour”#August 12, 2014#National Endowment for Democracy’s Laith Kubba presents his analysis of the current political developments in Iraq on PBS NewsHour along with NED Board member Zalmay Khalilzad.Watch the full interview with Gwen Ifill.The October 2016 issue features seven essays on the political tendencies challenging...Voices of Civil Society in IraqWednesday, March 25,...The Board of Directors and staff of the National Endowment...
#Worth Reading (Aug. 1, 2014): Journal of Democracy July 2014#August 1, 2014#This installment of Worth Reading showcases articles from the July 2014 issue of the Journal of Democracy: “Gay Rights: Why Democracy Matters,” by Omar G. Encarnación; “The End of the Transitions Era?” by Journal of Democracy co-editor Marc F. Plattner; and “The Ups and Downs of Islamism,” a review by Tarek Masoud of Shadi Hamid’s new book, Temptations of Power: Islamists and Illiberal Democracy in a New Middle East.In “Gay Rights: Why Democracy Matters,” Omar G. Encarnación explores the correlation between democratic governance and respect for the rights of gay citizens. While gay rights have advanced quickly over the past decade, Encarnación reminds readers that these rights are “deepening more than spreading.” In democratic countries, he writes, gay rights have made remarkable progress. By contrast, in authoritarian countries including Uganda and Russia, threats to the LGBT community are a matter of grave concern. Seeking to explain why “the nature of the political regime is a better predictor of gay rights than either economic development or cultural factors such as religion,” Encarnación turns to the history of the gay rights movement. He finds that democratic systems enable progress in this area through several mechanisms, including the protections of citizenship, the presence of a vibrant civil society, intra-civil society collaboration, respect for the rule of law (which has contributed to demonstrable progress in Latin America), and a tolerant environment in which gay people may “live their sexuality openly and honestly.”Encarnación discussed his article in a Journal of Democracy podcast, available here.In “The End of the Transitions Era?,” Journal of Democracy co-editor and International Forum for Democratic Studies Research Council Co-Chair Marc F. Plattner examines the origins of the terms “democratic transition,” “revolution,” and “regime change” for insight into the future of these concepts. Beginning with the Aristotelian concept of “regime change” as a cycle between democracy and oligarchy, Plattner proceeds to explore the concept of “democratic revolution” from the perspective of Alexis de Tocqueville, who described global politics as moving toward the social equality of all citizens, but not necessarily toward political freedom. The concepts of authoritarian breakdown and transitions toward greater political freedom began to be seriously considered with the works of Dankwart Rustow, Guillermo O’Donnell, Philippe Schmitter, and Laurence Whitehead, finally culminating in Samuel Huntington’s book Democracy’s Third Wave. This literature, Plattner writes, is sometimes misread as implying that any authoritarian collapse must be part of a transition toward democracy. Looking forward, Plattner notes that the third wave was marked by the relative strength of the democratic idea and the weakness of authoritarian regimes, trends which are somewhat reversed today. In an era where authoritarian regimes actively thwart democratic aspirations and the “low-hanging fruit” (countries where democratization posed the least challenge) has already been picked, Plattner does not predict another wave of democratization–but neither does he predict another reverse wave like those following the first and second waves of democratization.An adapted version of Plattner’s article appeared in Foreign Policy, which can be accessed here.Finally, in “The Ups and Downs of Islamism,” Tarek Masoud reviews Temptations of Power: Islamists and Illiberal Democracy in a New Middle East by Shadi Hamid. Masoud summarizes the book’s central puzzle in the following way: why did the Brotherhood, upon obtaining power, fail to live up to their relatively moderate campaign rhetoric and instead opt for a hardline approach? Hamid suggests that assumptions that the Muslim Brotherhood would become more moderate after achieving political inclusion were based on underestimations of radicalism in Egyptian society. Masoud critiques this theory using Hamid’s own fieldwork, noting that the forces which caused the Brotherhood to moderate its rhetoric did not “disappear with the advent of democratic competition.” Instead, Masoud posits that the Brotherhood was, as the book’s title suggests, “simply blinded by the temptations of power.” Masoud concludes by reflecting on Tunisia, where political rejection of moderate Islamists “suggests…less that the inclusion-moderation thesis is wrong than that non-Islamists have categorically ruled out the possibility that it could ever be right.”More information on Hamid’s book can be found here.Worth Reading is a bi-monthly publication of the International Forum for Democratic Studies at the National Endowment for Democracy. Many thanks to the Journal of Democracy editorial staff for their work on the most recent issue; thanks also to Omar G. Encarnación, Marc F. Plattner, and Tarek Masoud for their scholarship and insight. If you have materials you would like featured in Worth Reading, please send us an email at ndri@ned.org.Warsaw-based Polish Newspaper Gazeta Wyborcza sat down with NED President Carl...The International Forum for Democratic Studies explores...Forum director Shanthi Kalathil reviews Nadege Rolland's...The National Endowment for Democracy (NED) welcomes...Sept.
#Journal of Democracy Podcast: Gay Rights and Democracy#July 30, 2014#About the PodcastIn an interview with Journal of Democracy managing editor Brent Kallmer, Omar G. Encarnación discusses the importance of democracy to recent advances in gay rights.Encarnación notes that across the world, gay rights are “deepening more than spreading.” Gay rights activists have successfully deepened these rights in democratic countries across Europe and the Americas, but continue to struggle for basic protections in authoritarian regimes worldwide. Encarnación attributes the relationship between democracy and successful gay rights advocacy to several mechanisms, including the protections of citizenship, the presence of a vibrant civil society, intra-civil society collaboration, respect for the rule of law (which has led to huge strides forward in Latin America), and a tolerant environment in which gay people may “live their sexuality openly and honestly.”Omar G. Encarnación is a Professor of Political Studies and Director of the Political Studies Program at Bard College. He is the author of Democracy Without Justice in Spain: The Politics of Forgetting (2014).Listen to the Podcast (17 minutes, 58 seconds) Read “Gay Rights: Why Democracy Matters” in the July 2014 Journal of Democracy.This discussion bring journalists and activists from four African nations to... “In the Shadows of Democracy:LGBTIQ Rights...Dr. Dmitry Dubrovsky most recently served as associate...The International Forum for Democratic Studies asked...
#2014-2015 Penn Kemble Forum#July 29, 2014#The National Endowment for Democracy is accepting applications for its 2014-2015 Penn Kemble Youth Forum on Democracy.Purpose of the ForumTo provide an opportunity for the next generation of aspiring democracy practitioners and foreign policy professionals to engage in networking, education, and training opportunities with counterparts who share a commitment to international engagement and advancing democracy. Through the forum, which will run this year from October 2014 to June 2015, these young leaders – Penn Kemble associates – will engage with leading foreign policy experts, democracy practitioners, civil society activists and former government officials. Associates will also be invited to a range of other events. Penn Kemble’s death in October 2005 robbed the democracy movement of one of its most committed activists and strategists. His political evolution took him from early involvement in the young socialist and civil rights movements, through engagement with the U.S. labor movement in combatting Communism, especially within Central America, to more recent initiatives, including the Transatlantic Democracy Network and Civitas, an international program to promote civic education. He served as deputy and acting director of the United States Information Agency in the Clinton administration, and Secretary of State Albright appointed him U.S. representative to the Community of Democracies. In 2002, Secretary of State Powell appointed him to lead a group to investigate slavery and human trafficking in Sudan.The forum is organized and sponsored by the National Endowment for Democracy with the assistance of a distinguished advisory committee of scholars and practitioners. Learn more about the Endowment’s work and mission here.Requirements and ExpectationsApplicants should be young professionals working on foreign policy, democracy, development or related issues within think tanks, government, and the private or non-profit sectors. A limited number of rising seniors and recent graduates will be considered for participation as well. For participation, applicants need to be based in the Washington, D.C., area. The program is unpaid and nonresidential. Successful applicants are expected to attend at least one monthly seminar (to be held after working hours), although additional events and meetings will be scheduled.Before applying, please consider if your professional and personal obligations will allow you to participate fully. Upon acceptance, you will receive additional information about the program.Application ProcessApplicants are asked to fill out the application form below, which includes the following required documents:All application materials must be submitted in full by 5:00 PM on Friday, September 19th. Applicants will be notified of their selection in late September, and the program will begin in October. Any questions should be directed to Michael Allen.Penn Kemble’s death in October 2005 robbed the democracy movement of one of its most committed activists and strategists. His political evolution took him from early involvement in the young socialist and civil rights movements, through engagement with the U.S. labor movement in combatting Communism, especially within Central America, to more recent initiatives, including the Transatlantic Democracy Network and Civitas, an international program to promote civic education. He served as deputy and acting director of the United States Information Agency in the Clinton administration, and Secretary of State Albright appointed him U.S. representative to the Community of Democracies. In 2002, Secretary of State Powell appointed him to lead a group to investigate slavery and human trafficking in Sudan.Applications for the 2014 Penn Kemble Fellowship are closed. Applications will be open again in summer of 2015.The National Endowment for Democracy (NED) welcomes...Democracy Research News is the electronic newsletter...Dr. Dmitry Dubrovsky most recently served as associate...Brian Joseph has been named vice president for Asia, Middle East & North Africa,...
#How to Bring a Dictator to Justice: The Hissen Habré Trial##From 1982 to 1990, Chad witnessed thousands of political killings and systematic torture under the regime of its former president, Hissen Habréformer president, Hissen Habré. The Extraordinary African Chambers has accused the exiled former dictator, now based in Senegal, of crimes against humanity, war crimes, and torture. Twenty-four years after the end of his rule, litigation against Habré has finally gained critical momentum in Dakar. As a member of the international team of lawyers prosecuting the case, Delphine Djiraibe is well-placed to tell the story of how Habré was brought to trial and to explore the potential impact on transitional justice in Chad. In her presentation, she reflected on the legal process thus far, discussed where the trial stands today, and considered next steps in Senegal and beyond. Her presentation also examined valuable examples of alternative justice mechanisms through which victims of human rights abuses may hold their perpetrators accountable. Her presentation was followed by comments by Dave Peterson.featuringwith comments bymoderated by Delphine Djiraibe is a senior human rights lawyer and chief attorney at the Public Interest Law Center, a NED grantee organization based in N’djamena that she founded in 2006 to provide Chad’s poor with access to justice and hold the Chadian government and extractive industries accountable for harm caused to local populations and the environment. In 1991, she co-founded the Chadian Association for the Promotion and Defense of Human Rights and has succeeded in helping victims of former dictator Hissen Habré bring him to justice. Ms. Djiraibe also serves as president of the Peace and Reconciliation Initiative’s Comité de Suivi de l’Appel à la Paix et à la Réconciliation, whose objective is to encourage dialogue among political actors, strengthen democratic practices, and promote the rule of law. For her extraordinary efforts in protecting human rights and preserving the environment, she received the Robert F. Kennedy Human Rights Award in 2004. During her fellowship, she is exploring issues of transitional justice in comparative context, focusing on the Hissen Habré trial and researching mechanisms to improve equal access to justice in Chad.Dave Peterson is senior director for Africa at the National Endowment for Democracy.Powerpoint Presentation :: PDFEvent Highlights :: PDF
#Democracy Ideas: Charles Mangongera, Zimbabwe: The Military vs. Democracy#June 6, 2014#In this episode of Democracy Ideas, Christopher Walker interviews Charles Mangongera about the militarization of Zimbabwe’s politics, state institutions, and economy, as well as how the military’s role may affect Zimbabwe’s prospects for democratic reform.Mr. Charles Mangongera is a Zimbabwean human rights and governance researcher who previously served as director of policy and research at the Movement for Democratic Change. He was a Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellow in residence at the International Forum for Democratic Studies from October 2013–February 2014. During his fellowship, Mr. Mangongera explored the role of the military in supplanting Zimbabwe’s democratic transition.Watch more Democracy IdeasRead Charles Mangongera’s article, “A New Twilight in Zimbabwe? The Military vs. Democracy” from the April 2014 issue of the Journal of Democracy. (ProjectMUSE access is required)Listen to a podcast with Adrienne LeBas on her article, “A New Twilight in Zimbabwe? The Perils of Power Sharing” based on her article in the April 2014 issue of the Journal of Democracy.Watch video from Charles Mangongera’s fellowship presentation, “Zimbabwe’s Military and the Prospects for Democratic Reform” held on January 15, 2014.Walker: Given the wide range of challenges that Zimbabwe faces on governance, why is it that you’ve decided to focus on the military’s special role in blocking improvements to governance in the country?Mangongera: Well, as I reflected on the challenges that we have in the country and in particular, on what has happened over the last four to five years when we had a power-sharing government—which was supposed to bring in the reform of state institutions and create conditions for open and free political competition—what we saw was that process was kind of supplanted and Zimbabwe’s transition became complicated.And as I reflected on that, I realized that the military has taken a much more prominent role in determining the course of events to make sure that Mr. Mugabe’s party retains political power.The military has taken over most of the strategic institutions. If you look at the economy, they have taken over most of the strategic industries, ensuring that they have used those resources that have accrued from their control to maintain the totalitarian grip of power by Mr. Mugabe.Walker: In what ways has ZANU-PF’s militarization caused the militarization of wider Zimbabwean society?Mangongera: Well, That’s an interesting questions because what we have seen in Zimbabwe, I think, is a conflation of the state and the party. So in some ways, you fail to distinguish the state from the party, the party becomes the state, and the military has become infused in all of this.If you look at the 2013 election for instance—which we just came out of—you had people coming from the military and going to ZANU-PF to design the electoral campaign and to design the voter registration process, so they basically control everything.But beyond that, if you look at the key institutions that are critical for power—if you go to the judiciary for instance, you will find some of the judges come from the military. If you go to the public broadcaster, the Zimbabwe Broadcasting Corporation, the person who is heading that institution has been given a farm in one of the prime areas. If you go the Zimbabwe Electoral Commission (ZEC), you will find that the person heading the ZEC and the people who are manning the secretariat are people from the military, and they have been given some of these patronage benefits.If you look at society and the economy, most of the key industries—mining for instance, in Chiadzou where we are mining diamonds—you will realize that Chinese companies have gone into a joint venture with companies headed by people who come from a military tradition or who come from the military. So, the whole society has been militarized, and in my view, that has complicated the kind of transition we would want to see because they want to maintain total control of the state for the purposes of accumulating personal and functional benefits.Walker: You’ve described very eloquently the opportunities that are available to the senior ranks of Zimbabwe’s military, but is it your sense that there is a distinction between the upper ranks of the military and the more junior ranks which may have a different vision and view of how Zimbabwe should be governed?Mangongera: Well, I often say to democracy actors in Zimbabwe who are thinking about possible positive actions that can be taken in the future in terms of security sector reform, I think that there’s a professional cadre which is below or in the lower ranks of the military command which just wants to do its job and is committed to professional work. I think that’s the professional cadre that we ought to be thinking about going forward.Walker: Finally, Robert Mugabe has recently celebrated his 90th birthday and while the precise time of a political transition isn’t known, what in your view would be the most important steps for political opposition and reform minded people to take in order to encourage better democratic outcomes in the future of Zimbabwe?Mangongera: Well, I think that the biggest challenge going forward for democracy actors in Zimbabwe is going to be the reform of state institutions that have become so compromised because the regime has really bastardized most of these institutions. To create a professional ethic within those institutions so that they act in an impartial and non-partisan way is going to be one of the biggest challenges.More importantly, for me, even a post-Mugabe Zimbabwe, the challenge we are going to have is, “How do you untangle these tentacles of the military all over the place?” In industry, mining, business, and everything, you have all these people having control. It’s really like a mafia system. How do you untangle that to ensure that you have a professional business sector? How do you ensure that you really have a thriving private sector which is run by people with innovation and ideas who are not just benefiting from state patronage. I think that’s going to be the next biggest challenge for democratic actors in Zimbabwe.
#Liu Xiaobo and Xu Zhiyong Honored With 2014 Democracy Award,  Rep. Frank Wolf Given Democracy Service Medal#June 6, 2014#On May 29 the National Endowment for Democracy commemorated the 25th anniversary of the June 4, 1989 Tiananmen Square crackdown with the presentation of its annual Democracy Award to two imprisoned human rights activists, Liu Xiaobo and Xu Zhiyong. The event was held on Capitol Hill and featured opening remarks by NED Chairman Martin Frost and Assistant Secretary of State for Democracy, Human Rights and Labor Tom Malinowski.Assistant Secretary Malinowski underscored the timeliness of the Award. The drama of Tiananmen Square did not end on June 4, 1989, he said: “Many of the people who stood on that square that day asking only for the freedom to speak their minds and have a say are still harassed, others are still unaccounted for.”The night’s honorees had to be honored in absentia because Dr. Liu and Dr. Xu are currently serving prison sentences in China for their activism.“Since the regime in Beijing has chosen to silence their voices, we are here to make sure their voices are heard loud and clear,” Chairman Frost said.Xu Zhiyong, a legal scholar, has been at the forefront of campaigns for rights in China for the past decade. He co-founded the Open Constitution Initiative, an independent center bringing together rights lawyers, liberal intellectuals, journalists and citizen activists to work for rule of law in China. Dr. Xu’s landmark 2012 article, “China Needs a New Citizen’s Movement,” helped define and encourage hundreds of initiatives to help citizens assert their rights and demand accountability.“For his intellectual integrity, for his courage, for his belief in a free and democratic China, the NED is proud to present its 2014 Democracy Award to Xu Zhiyong,” NED Board Member Dr. Andrew Nathan said.Accepting the award on Dr. Xu’s behalf was Hua Ze, a friend of Dr. Xu as well as a documentary filmmaker and active supporter of the New Citizen’s Movement. Ms. Ze recounted both Dr. Xu’s great achievements and his burden of being haunted by consequences every step of the way: he was sentenced to four years in prison after a closed-door trial found him guilty of “gathering a crowd and disturbing public order.” Ms. Ze thanked NED, saying that she believed democracy and freedom in China requires “the hard work of countless Chinese people as well as the attention and support of the international community.”Like his co-honoree, Liu Xiaobo is currently serving a prison sentence for his activism: 11 years for his critical writings and role in launching Charter 08, a declaration calling for political reforms and human rights published in 2008 that quickly garnered over 10,000 signatories throughout China.NED President Carl Gershman led off the remarks honoring Dr. Liu, recognizing another noted Chinese activist, Chen Guangcheng, was in the audience that night. Mr. Gershman noted commonalities in the Chinese democracy activism community. “The common thread running through the writings of Liu Xiaobo and Xu Zhiyong is the idea of citizenship, taking responsibility for one’s life and for the well-being of society,” he said.Accepting the award on behalf of Liu Xiaobo was House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi. She recalled the 2010 Nobel Peace Prize ceremony in Oslo, where Dr. Liu’s chair of honor remained notably empty because he was in prison. “It was a scene that went around the world,” she said. “We remember all those who left empty chairs because they stood up and spoke out against the abuses of the Chinese government.” Rep. Pelosi said she hoped for continued bipartisan calls for human rights reform in China.NED also used the occasion to honor U.S. Representative Frank Wolf (R-VA) with the Democracy Service Medal. Accepting the Medal, Rep. Wolf focused on the courage of Chinese activists like those honored alongside him, acknowledging he was moved to be in their company.“In face of China’s draconian assault on basic human liberty, millions of Chinese people continue to long for and courageously act in pursuit of freedom and basic human dignity,” he said. “These impulses are captured by the simultaneously tragic and inspiring biographies of this evening’s democracy award recipients.”Several members of Congress joined NED in paying tribute to Rep. Wolf. Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) applauded Rep. Wolf’s ability to cross party lines on crucial human rights issues. Rep. McGovern said it had been a privilege to serve with Rep. Wolf, describing him as “a man with a tender heart but a spine of steel.”Rep. Wolf’s dedication to rising above the Washington political fray was a common theme among his Congressional supporters. Congressman Joe Pitts (R-PA) lauded Rep. Wolf’s willingness to take political risks.“For a member of Congress it’s very tempting to focus on issues that get you votes and raise you money,” Rep. Pitts said. “But Frank and I both have the same weakness: some of the things we really care about raise us no money, get us no votes, and get us no kudos from the folks back home.”Vin Weber, vice chairman of NED’s Board and a former Congressman from Minnesota, recounted a trip to Beijing made by Rep. Wolf following the 2008 NED Democracy Award. That year, the award honored a group of lawyers battling religious persecution in China, most of whom had to be honored in absentia. Rep. Wolf’s efforts to seek out the recipients and present their awards in person were denied by authorities, but the “message of encouragement and solidarity that they sent to their fellow activists could not have been clearer or more reassuring,” Weber said.“Frank has devoted himself to a cause truly larger than himself,” Weber said. “He is an example of democracy at its best, of government at its best, of the United States of America at its best.”As the night wound down, the shadow of the Tiananmen Square anniversary remained strong. Rep. Wolf’s final words noted that a consciousness had been awakened that day 25 years ago. And, while the flame has flickered, he said, it has persisted in the face of darkness because of the remarkable activists fighting for democracy and freedom in China.“Against all odds they have continued to battle Goliath,” he said. “And we know –we know – how that story ends.”  
#NED mourns Sardar Ahmad, founder of Kabul Pressistan#June 5, 2014#It is with deep sorrow to report that NED mourns the loss of Sardar Ahmad, a widely-respected Afghan journalist and founder of NED grantee Kabul Pressistan, in the tragic terrorist attack on the Serena Hotel in Kabul the day before the country’s elections. Sardar Ahmad, his wife Humira, their six year old daughter Nilofar, and their four year old son Omar were brutally murdered at point blank while celebrating the Afghan New Year over dinner. Abzuar, his two year old son, was wounded in the head by a bullet fragment, but is now out of danger and recovering in the hospital.  Agence France-Presse has set up a permanent fund to help his recovery and transition to a life without his parents.This tragedy underlines the risk – and courage – that characterizes the work of so many NED grantees. Despite these dangers, grantees like Sardar press on in their drive to bring positive change to their countries. Sardar founded Kabul Pressistan (KP) to strengthen independent media in Afghanistan and provide civil society organizations with media access. KP used Endowment support to develop in-house audio-production capacity and to broadcast programs through 24 radio stations across six provinces. KP’s radio programs and news features focus on democracy, human rights, good governance, and anti-corruption campaigns.KP’s daily programing includes news bulletins featuring national and international news, followed by comments and analysis. The programming also features social, cultural, and political developments in Afghanistan, debates, and talk shows. Each programming bundle KP produces for its affiliate stations brings independent analysts, civil society and rights activists, and political pundits into the discussion to analyze and debate civic concerns and current events. The daily shows are recorded in Farsi and Pashtu, and reach an estimated one million listeners, mainly youth and women.KP also provides internships at its production studio for both male and female students from Kabul University’s journalism faculty. The interns get hands-on experience with interview techniques, reporting skills, and acquiring and verifying news sources. After their internships, KP awards the students with a certificate acknowledging their work in radio journalism and, where possible, assists in their job search either with KP or elsewhere.Sardar Ahmad will be missed by so many in Afghanistan, and will be around the world by all who supported and admired his struggle for a free, stable, and democratic Afghanistan. Sardar’s final story says a lot about him: his optimism, his humor his versatility. Rest in peace. 
#NED Marks Tiananmen Anniversary With Tributes to Chinese Prisoners and Stalwart Human Rights Campaigner#May 21, 2014#WASHINGTON, D.C. — On Thursday, May 29, 2014, the National Endowment for Democracy (NED) will honor in absentia Chinese political prisoners Liu Xiaobo and Xu Zhiyong with the presentation of the 2014 Democracy Award.  The award to Mr. Liu will be accepted by House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi and the award to Dr.  Xu will be accepted by another Chinese rights advocate, Hua Ze.  Assistant Secretary of State for Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor Tom Malinowski will also make remarks.  Liu Xiaobo was the recipient of the 2010 Nobel Peace Prize and Xu Zhiyong is the founder of the New Citizens’ Movement.At the same event, the Endowment will also honor a tireless defender of human rights in China and around the world, U.S. Representative Frank Wolf (R-VA), who will receive the Democracy Service Medal.  NED Chairman Martin Frost will preside at the award presentation, which will take place at a Capitol Hill reception in room B-338 of the Rayburn House Office Building from 5:00 – 7:00 p.m. on May 29.“Twenty-five years ago, Chinese tanks rolled into Tiananmen Square, crushing peaceful demonstrations for democracy,” said NED President Carl Gershman. Despite this brutal crackdown, and 25 years of harsh repression since, brave Chinese voices continue to call for democracy and human rights. The National Endowment for Democracy is proud to honor two of these voices – Liu Xiaobo and Xu Zhiyong – both locked in Chinese prisons because the regime views the power of their ideas as an existential challenge.”Since 1991, NED has presented as its Democracy Award a small-scale replica of the Goddess of Democracy statue that was constructed in Tiananmen Square during the student movement for Democracy and Freedom in 1989.About the HonoreesLiu Xiaobo, the 2010 Nobel Peace Prize Laureate, was unable to receive the prize due to an 11-year prison sentence for his critical writings and role in launching Charter 08. The declaration calling for political reforms and human rights published in 2008 quickly garnered over 10,000 signatories from throughout China. Liu Xiaobo has played a major role in advancing democratic ideas and values in China.  Among his many contributions is his work as editor of Democratic China magazine for several years until his arrest, and his tenure as president of the Independent Chinese PEN Center from 2003 to 2007.  Both organizations have received annual NED grants for many years.Xu Zhiyong, a legal scholar, has been at the forefront of campaigns for rights in China for the past decade. He cofounded the Open Constitution Initiative, an independent center, which brought together rights lawyers, liberal intellectuals, journalists and citizen activists from 2006-2009 to work for the rule of law in China.  Dr. Xu’s landmark article in 2012, China Needs a New Citizens’ Movement, helped define and encourage hundreds of initiatives to help citizens assert their rights and demand accountability. Dr. Xu and dozens of others involved in the New Citizens’ Movement have been detained since 2013. Dr. Xu received a four-year prison sentence in January 2014, after a closed-door trial found him guilty of “gathering a crowd and disturbing public order.”Representative Frank Wolf (R-VA) is one of the Congress’ most eloquent and persistent advocates for human rights around the world. In addition to speaking out on behalf of victims of religious and other forms of persecution, Rep. Wolf is the co-chairman, along with Rep. Jim McGovern (D-MA), of the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission, and was one of the driving forces behind the creation of the U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom.The National Endowment for Democracy is a private, nonprofit, bipartisan foundation created in 1983 to strengthen democratic institutions around the world.  It is active in more than 90 countries, supporting grassroots, democratic initiatives.  More information about NED and the Democracy Award can be found at www.ned.org.For media inquiries, please contact Jane Riley Jacobsen at jane@ned.org or at (202) 378-9700. NED President Carl Gershman presents the Disturbing the Peace Award to a Courageous...Shanthi Kalathil delves into China's unprecedented...In light of the rise of populist views in the region,...The International Forum for Democratic Studies at The...Martin Lee, longtime leader of Hong Kong's Democracy...Read the welcome and introductions by Carl Gershman.
#Democratization and Authoritarianism in the Arab World#April 20, 2014#Beginning in December 2010, a series of uprisings swept the Arab world, toppling four longtime leaders and creating an apparent political opening in a region long impervious to the “third wave” of democratization. Despite the initial euphoria, the legacies of authoritarianism—polarized societies, politicized militaries, state-centric economies, and pervasive clientelism—have proven stubborn obstacles to the fashioning of new political and social contracts. Meanwhile, the strong electoral performance of political Islamists and the ensuing backlash in Egypt have rekindled arguments about the compatibility of democracy and political Islam. Even though progress toward democracy has been halting at best, the region’s political environment today bears little resemblance to what it was before the uprisings.In Democratization and Authoritarianism in the Arab World, leading scholars address the questions posed by this period of historic change in the Middle East and North Africa. This volume includes chapters examining several broad themes: the region’s shifting political culture, the relationship between democracy and political Islam, the legacy of authoritarian ruling arrangements, the strengths and vulnerabilities of remaining autocracies, and the lessons learned from transitions to democracy in other parts of the world. It also features chapters analyzing the political development of individual countries: Algeria, Bahrain, Egypt, Jordan, Libya, Morocco, Saudi Arabia, Syria, Tunisia, Yemen, and the monarchies of the Gulf.Contributors: Hicham Ben Abdallah El Alaoui, April Longley Alley, Zoltan Barany, Ahmed Benchemsi, Mieczysław P. Boduszyński, Nathan J. Brown, Jason Brownlee, Daniel Brumberg, John M. Carey, Michele Dunne, Abdou Filali-Ansary, Hillel Fradkin, F. Gregory Gause III, Husain Haqqani, Steven Heydemann, Philip N. Howard, Muzammil M. Hussain, Amaney Jamal, Stéphane Lacroix, Juan J. Linz, Tarek Masoud, Marc F. Plattner, Tarek Radwan, Hamadi Redissi, Andrew Reynolds, Michael Robbins, Olivier Roy, Peter J. Schraeder, Alfred Stepan, Mark Tessler, Frédéric Volpi, Lucan Way, Frederic Wehrey, Sean L. YomLarry Diamond is senior fellow at the Hoover Institution and at Stanford’s Freeman Spogli Institute for International Studies, where he directs the Center on Democracy, Development, and the Rule of Law. Marc F. Plattner is vice president for research and studies at the National Endowment for Democracy. Plattner and Diamond are coeditors of the Journal of Democracy.EVENT: “Democratization and Authoritarianism in the Arab World” (Apr. 25, 2014)Watch Marc F. Plattner discuss Democratization and Authoritarianism in the Arab World with the Johns Hopkins University Press.Learn about the Forum’s research project exploring “Reconsidering Democratic Transitions: The Arab Spring and the Color Revolutions”.
#Democracy Ideas: Lilia Shevtsova, “Russia Rewrites the Rules”#April 15, 2014#In this episode of Democracy Ideas, Lilia Shevtsova discusses Russia’s political transformation under President Vladimir Putin, the emergence of Russia’s new, illiberal political narrative, and how Russia’s foreign policy serves a domestic agenda.Lilia Shevtsova chairs the Russian Domestic Politics and Political Institutions Program at the Carnegie Moscow Center. Currently, Dr. Shevstova is a member of the Editorial Board for the American Interest, Pro et Contra, Demokratizatsiya, and the Journal of Democracy. In addition to participating in the Davos World Economic Forum’s ongoing Global Redesign Initiative program, she is a senior research associate at the Russian Academy of Sciences’ Institute of Economics and an associate fellow at the Royal Institute of International Affairs (Chatham House). Dr. Shevtsova is the author of fifteen books including the most recent Change or Decay: Russia’s Dilemma and the West’s Response with co-author Andrew Wood.Watch more Democracy IdeasRead Lilia Shevtsova’s article “The Putin Doctrine: Myth, Provocation, Blackmail, or the Real Deal?” published in The American Interest.Also read “Putinism Under Siege: Implosion, Atrophy, or Revolution” from the Journal of Democracy July 2012 issue.Walker: You’ve indicated that Russia’s system is undergoing a process of transformation. Could you give us a sense of what are the most important elements of this transformational change?Shevtsova: The Russian political regime is trying desperately. It’s trying hard to adapt to the new reality and to new domestic and international challenges, and having no ability or readiness to modernize itself as a top-down government, the political leadership has decided to return back.Before today, they’ve been trying to rule Russia by imitating liberal democracy, liberal democratic values and the system, in general.Now there is another premise for the Russian political system—they are trying to contain the West. They try to return back into the past in order to revive Russian traditional myths, stereotypes, and mechanisms of law.Walker: You have also suggested that the change in Russia is one that’s based on the idea of “civilizational uniqueness.” Can you describe to us what this idea means?Shevtsova: Before 2013, there was an old premise for Putin’s team, and on the basis of the premise they ruled the country: “We are just like you, we are just like the West, we are a nearly liberal democracy.”But now today, their premise is “Russia is a unique state civilization,” which is based firstly on the important role of the Orthodox Church; secondly on the role of the state, where the state is dominant, and individuals, or people, have to be subjugated to the state; and thirdly on traditional morality, which means total rejection of any tolerance.Walker: And what is most important for the outside world to understand about this idea of the unique civilization in Russia?Shevtsova: Well, you mentioned a very important side of this civilization, and this side is international and regional. Compared to other authoritarian states, Russia’s matrix and personalist power system exists by trying to expand, by trying to have impact outside [the country], and by trying to return to idea of Eurasia—that means Russia as a kind of galaxy that will include Russia in the middle and a galaxy of dependent states.At the same time, there is a second element of Russia’s foreign policy which has to be the element of serving the domestic agenda. And what is the domestic agenda? It is containment of the West.Walker: How sustainable do you believe the new Russian model is?Shevtsova: If you return to history and read The Origins of Political Order by Francis Fukuyama, you’ll understand that apparently Russia has ended the period of more or less stable status quo and entered a new period of agony. True, agony could continue for a long time, but the system is hardly sustainable.[Russia] has two options to develop. One option is further degradation, demoralization, rot, and maybe gradual fragmentation of the state and society.The second option is crisis. Crisis is probably the best solution for Russia because crisis gives an opportunity to revive forces of change and dynamism.Walker: Finally, in your view, what is the greatest misapprehension that the outside world has of Russia today, and how should the outside world understand the changes that the country is undergoing?Shevtsova: Well, the Russians are mistaken about Russia, but if we are talking about the West, it seems that the West and the outside world underestimated the possibility for the revival of Russian exceptionalism, of Russia’s expansionism, and of Russia’s ability to damage the outside world and to try to break the rules of the game.
#Democracy Ideas: Anne Applebaum, "Revolutions and Democracy"#March 7, 2014#Democracy Ideas: Anne Applebaum by International Forum for Democratic StudiesIn this episode of Democracy Ideas, Christopher Walker asks Anne Applebaum about the factors that were critical for successful democratic transitions in Central Europe after the fall of the Berlin Wall, including the role of political elites, space for grassroots organizations, and societal expectations. Anne Applebaum also discusses the how these factors may affect current transitions underway in Ukraine and North Africa. (see the full interview transcript below)Anne Applebaum is the Director of Global Transitions at the Legatum Institute. She is also a columnist for the Washington Post and Slate, and the author of several books, including Gulag: A History, which won the 2004 Pulitzer Prize for non-fiction as well as other awards. She is the recipient of the Cundill Prize for Literature for her most recent book Iron Curtain: The Crushing of Eastern Europe 1944-56.Watch More Democracy IdeasLearn more about the International Forum for Democratic Studies research activities examining “Reconsidering Democratic Transitions: The Arab Spring and the Color Revolutions” and “The Role of Economics in Democratic Transitions.”Read articles from the Journal of Democracy January 2014 issue exploring “The Legacies of 1989.”Watch Anne Applebaum discuss her book, Iron Curtain: The Crushing of Eastern Europe 1944-56 at a book discussion organized by the International Forum for Democratic Studies in November 2012.Walker: It’s now nearly 25 years since the fall of the Berlin Wall and more than two decades since the implosion of the former Soviet Union. Since that time, we’ve seen a reemergence of contestation in the region where there are forces of coercion looking to influence the countries that are in the space between the E.U. and Russia against more consensus-based ideas. How do you see these developments?Applebaum: It’s actually interesting to use the word contestation because you wouldn’t use that word 20 years ago. The countries which have had the most successful economic and political transitions in the last 20 years are countries which knew absolutely they had a cohesive political class; they had an alternative political elite which knew absolutely where it wanted to go after 1989. Maybe they didn’t know precisely, and maybe they didn’t know which kind of privatization they were going to have or which particular form of constitution they were going to choose, but these are countries that were all headed in one way by national consensus. You have Poland, Hungary, the Czechs and Slovaks, and the Baltic States—these are countries which never had any doubts about which way they wanted their transition to be.What happened, though, in other parts of Europe is that countries who weren’t so sure which way they were going to go, or where there were other interests at stake—people had interests in oil and gas, in natural resources, or there were people who, once the economies had partly transformed (in other words, some things were private, some things were state) found that state of affairs to be a good one. Some people did very well in these half-changed places because there were ways of making money off of great connections and so on. Then, you saw a group of countries that didn’t have a clear direction after the collapse of the Soviet Union and didn’t make definite decisions at that time. And those are the countries that have more recently become part of this geopolitically contested space—Ukraine, Georgia, and Moldova.Walker: You mention the idea of alternative elites being critical to successful democratic transitions. What determines how these elites form and the extent to which they can influence politics after there’s an opening in these kinds of settings?Applebaum: The point about the Czechs—and particularly about the Poles—is that it wasn’t just about Havel, and it wasn’t just the people. Havel was, in a way, the theorist in this idea. But if you had gone to Poland or Hungary in the mid-1980s, you would have found an independent scouting movement, you would have found some small business, you would have found quite a lot of church groups, you would have found academic organizations. In other words, you would have found people who had already begun to organize themselves inside the totalitarian space.Why that happened in those countries is partly to do with the decay of communism there—the fact that the ideology didn’t last very long and wasn’t very successful—it was probably because of older traditions, and it was partly to do with luck. The Poles were lucky because John Paul II became Pope, and he was an inspiration for precisely this kind of activity. It was probably because they were closer to the west—they had Western ties and links. You did see a similar phenomenon in the Baltic states and actually to some extent, Western Ukraine—the early nationalist movements of the late 1980s and 1990s were exactly that. They organized themselves and were able to make changes.You did not have that in Eastern Ukraine, you did not have that elsewhere in the former Soviet Union. So, in a way some of what is happening in Ukraine now is what happened in Poland in the 1970s. The society is beginning to define what it wants: what do we want to be, what kind of rights do we want to have, what kind of relationship do we want to have with the state, how do we want to organize our own lives?Walker: You indicated that it takes quite a bit of time for societies to organize themselves in a way to achieve positive democratic reform. Do you have a sense that Ukraine is becoming more mature and is heading in the direction of greater reforms?Applebaum: Were it a kind of step ladder toward perfect progress, maybe that’s what would happen, but yes, I think before you have a political elite that can say “right, we want to be European, we want to have transparent laws, we want to have an independent judicial system, we want to have banks that are real banks that aren’t just funneling money to oligarchs,” you need a society that knows that it wants that and knows that it wants that kind of society to live in. You are beginning to see that form in Ukraine now, as we’ve seen in Georgia and elsewhere.Walker: And in broad terms, what do you see as the most critical factors for successful reforms in these sorts of environments?Applebaum: Look at the sources of success. For example, a country that’s been the most successful is Tunisia—here, what you have once again was a political class that was willing to make compromises, was willing to jointly write a constitution with other people whom it disliked, was willing to think about the rights of the individuals, and was willing to lay the groundwork for a long-term society. You didn’t have that in Egypt. You don’t have that in Libya. You haven’t had that kind of national consensus—that this is what we want.At some level, you need this national consensus. At some level, you need people to feel themselves to be citizens, to feel some connection to the state, and to want to take responsibility for the state. What you need in turn is a state apparatus that feels that it works for the society.What you’ve had so often in post-Soviet societies is the state—or the state bureaucracy—and the government who simply don’t feel any responsibility to the people. You become head of the country and what you do is steal as much as possible, get your children to head as many companies as possible, and then hope you can get away with it. What you need to have is a responsible political elite that doesn’t think in those terms.Walker: Many observers of developments in North Africa have used the positive Central European experience as a frame of reference in thinking about developments in Libya, Egypt, and Tunisia. How do you see this and do you think this may lead to overly high expectations in the most recent cases?Applebaum: If you looked at Central Europe in 1995—three, four, or five years after the change—would it have looked so marvelous? Probably not.One of my fears about North Africa is there were these enormous expectations unleashed by what were just street revolutions. They weren’t major changes of power— they may [be] beginning to be, particularly in Tunisia—but the amount of time that has lapsed is tiny. At the time, I wrote “Don’t think 1989, think 1848.” Maybe this is the first generation for the revolutions. There may be setbacks, there may be changes, but these are societies that are just beginning to form themselves.In Egypt, you have very high rates of illiteracy—something like 60%. In a very illiterate society, it takes longer to explain [things] to people, and it takes longer to make people feel part of a polity or part of a state, which is an absolutely necessary and important ingredient for stability in the future. So, I think we may have over-high expectations of these kinds of changes.On the other hand, it’s also important to remember that even in a very authoritarian or totalitarian society, change is good. It’s good when people organize themselves against a dictatorial regime. It means people are beginning to think, and it means a better future is at least possible.
#Democracy Ideas: Javier Corrales, "Authoritarianism in Venezuela"#February 24, 2014# Democracy Ideas: Javier Corrales with the International Forum for Democratic StudiesIn an interview filmed shortly before the Venezuelan government began a violent crackdown against peaceful opposition protesters on February 12, 2014, Christopher Walker met with Forum Research Council Member Javier Corrales to discuss signs of increasing authoritarianism in Venezuela under the leadership of President Nicolás Maduro. In this interview, Dr. Corrales outlines the mechanisms that Maduro uses to maintain loyalty in the ruling coalition and repress the opposition. In addition, Dr. Corrales explains how Venezuela has sought to exert influence in Latin America and why it seeks to build relationships with other authoritarian regimes around the world, first under the leadership of Hugo Chávez and now under Maduro.Dr. Javier Corrales is professor of political science at Amherst College in Amherst, Massachusetts. He obtained his Ph.D. in political science from Harvard University. He is the co-author (with Carlos A. Romero) of U.S.-Venezuela Relations since the 1990s: Coping with Midlevel Security Threats (Routledge, 2013) and (with Michael Penfold) of Dragon in the Tropics: Hugo Chávez and the Political Economy of Revolution in Venezuela (Brookings Institution Press, 2011). He is also working on a book manuscript on constitutional reforms in Latin America.Download “Latin America’s Authoritarian Drift: The Threat from the Populist Left” [PDF] and listen to the Journal of Democracy podcast with author Kurt Weyland, from the July 2013 issue.Watch video from the Forum’s discussion of “Latin America’s Changing Political Landscape” in February 2011 featuring Javier Corrales, based on a cluster of articles published in the January 2011 issue of the Journal of Democracy.Read Javier Corrales’ analyses on “Latin America: A Setback for Chavez” and “Venezuela: Crowding out the Opposition,” published in the Journal of Democracy. (ProjectMUSE subscription is required to access these articles.)Watch More Democracy Ideas
#Breaking the News: The Role of Authoritarian State-Run Media##Sponsored by The International Forum for Democratic Studies at the National Endowment for Democracy and The George Washington University’s Institute for European, Russian, and Eurasian Studies.Despite the rapid rise of the Internet and social media, governments in places as diverse as China, Russia, Azerbaijan, Vietnam, Zimbabwe, and Iran are finding stubbornly effective ways to use state-run media to help themselves stay in power.They are achieving this feat through a combination of selective censorship of political expression and the use of state media to influence crucial audiences.Authoritarian rulers know that they need state-controlled media to survive; therefore real liberalization of such media is unlikely. The state’s grip on the media, once tightened, cannot readily be loosened without opening the floodgates and endangering the regime itself. Mikhail Gorbachev, the last top official of the USSR, discovered this with his policy of glasnost.Today, authoritarian governments are willfully depriving hundreds of millions of people of authentically plural and independent information and analysis, with profound implications for these countries’ ability to reform and prosper.The event, which featured experts on China, Russia, and Iran, was organized around the ideas in the January 2014 Journal of Democracy article, “Breaking the News: The Role of State-Run Media,” written by panelists Christopher Walker and Robert Orttung.featuring introductory remarks bypanelists include: moderated by Marc F. Plattner, Founding Co-editor of the Journal of DemocracyRead the January 2014 Journal of Democracy article, “Breaking the News: The Role of State-Run Media.” Read the op-ed “Authoritarian Regimes Re-Tool Their Media Control Strategies” by Christopher Walker and Robert Orttung published in the Washington Post on January 10, 2014. Anne-Marie Brady is an associate professor of political science at the University of Canterbury in New Zealand and a fellow at the Woodrow Wilson Center’s Kissinger Institute on China and the United States. A fluent Mandarin speaker, she specializes not only on China but also on the politics of the polar regions. She is editor-in-chief of The Polar Journal, and has written eight books and multiple scholarly articles on topics ranging from China’s modern propaganda system, and foreigner-management in China to competing foreign policy interests in Antarctica. Her latest monograph examines China’s polar policies, which is also the topic of her research fellowship at the Wilson Center. Her book Marketing Dictatorship (2009) and her edited volume China’s Thought Management (2011) discuss the ways in which propaganda and “thought work” are a key means for maintaining the Chinese Communist Party’s legitimacy and its continued hold on power. Golnaz Esfandiari is a senior correspondent in RFE/RL’s Central Newsroom and editor of the award-winning Persian Letters blog. She previously worked as the Chief Editor of RFE/RL’s Persian service, Radio Farda. She is the author of the Iran chapter of Freedom House’s 2012 “Countries at the Crossroads” report. Ms. Esfandiari has reported from a number of countries including Haiti and Afghanistan, where she covered the country’s first parliamentary elections. Her reporting and analysis on Iran has been cited by The New York Times, The New Yorker, The Atlantic, The Wall Street Journal, Foreign Policy, The Los Angeles Times, and The Weekly Standard. Ms. Esfandiari (@GEsfandiari) was tagged two years in a row in Foreign Policy’s Top 100 Twitterati list. Sarah Oates is a scholar in the field of political communications and democratization. A major theme in her work is the way in which the traditional media and the Internet can support or subvert democracy. She has published widely on these topics, including a recent book that compares election coverage in the U.S., the United Kingdom, and Russia (Terrorism, Elections, and Democracy: Political Campaigns in the United States, Great Britain, and Russia with Lynda Lee Kaid and Mike Berry, Palgrave-Macmillan, 2010). She is the author of a forthcoming book in the Oxford University Press Digital Politics series (Revolution Stalled: The Political Limits of the Internet in the Post-Soviet Sphere). As the founder of the Google Forum to bring together academics with Google U.K., she currently serves as an expert for the European Commission’s Digital Futures project.Robert Orttung is an associate research professor of international affairs and the assistant director of the Institute for European, Russian and Eurasian Studies at The George Washington University’s Elliott School of International Affairs. He is also a visiting scholar at the Center for Security Studies at the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology (ETH) in Zurich. Professor Orttung is a co-editor of the Russian Analytical Digest and the Caucasus Analytical Digest, bi-weekly electronic newsletters that examine political and economic developments in their respective regions. Previously he worked at the Jefferson Institute, American University’s Transnational Crime and Corruption Center, the EastWest Institute, and the Open Media Research Institute. Professor Orttung is also a member of the International Forum for Democratic Studies Research Council. Marc F. Plattner is founding coeditor of the Journal of Democracy, vice-president for research and studies at the National Endowment for Democracy, and co-chair of the Research Council of the International Forum for Democratic Studies. He is the author of Democracy without Borders? Global Challenges to Liberal Democracy and Rousseau’s State of Nature, and co-editor of more than twenty books on contemporary issues relating to democracy in the Journal of Democracy book series.Peter Rollberg, director of the Institute for European, Russian and Eurasian Studies at The George Washington University, is also professor of Slavic languages, film studies, and international affairs and director of the graduate program in European and Eurasian studies. Born in the former East Germany, he studies the history of Russian and Soviet culture, with a focus on literature and film. His latest publication is The A to Z of Russian and Soviet Cinema (2010). Rollberg won the Bender Teaching Prize in 1999 and the Trachtenberg Teaching Award in 2001. Christopher Walker is executive director of the National Endowment for Democracy’s International Forum for Democratic Studies. Prior to joining NED in 2012, Mr. Walker was vice president for strategy and analysis at Freedom House, where he helped oversee a team of analysts in devising overall strategy for Freedom House’s analytical projects on democratic development and media freedom. He has been published in the Wall Street Journal, New York Times, Washington Post, Journal of Democracy, and a range of other publications. 
#Democracy Ideas: Marc F. Plattner on "Governance" and Democracy#January 14, 2014#In this episode of Democracy Ideas, Forum executive director Christopher Walker speaks with Marc F. Plattner about the growing popularity of the term “governance” and whether “good governance” is really possible in the absence of democratic accountability. The discussion is based on the article by Marc F. Plattner titled “Reflections on ‘Governance'”, published in the October 2013 issue of the Journal of Democracy. Marc F. Plattner is founding coeditor of the Journal of Democracy, vice-president for research and studies at the National Endowment for Democracy (NED), and co-chair of the Research Council of the International Forum for Democratic Studies. Dr. Plattner graduated summa cum laude from Yale University and received his Ph.D. in government from Cornell University, where his principal area of study was political philosophy. Among his many writings, his most recent book is Democracy Without Borders? Global Challenges to Liberal Democracy (2008).Watch more Democracy Ideas.Watch the Forum’s Democracy Ideas interview with Francis Fukuyama on “Democracy and the Quality of the State,” based on his similiarly titled article, also published in the Journal of Democracy October 2013 issue.
#“Breaking the News: The Role of State-Run Media” – Journal of Democracy January 2014#January 10, 2014#In the Journal of Democracy January 2014 issue, Christopher Walker and Robert Orttung examined in in “Breaking the News: The Role of State-Run Media” how authoritarian regimes around the world are exerting control over media outlets to circumscribe news and information for mass audiences, promote public apathy, and shape the dominant political narrative.Aside from outliers such as Cuba, North Korea, and Turkmenistan, today’s authoritarian regimes do not seek total domination of all the means of mass communication. What they want instead is what we might call “effective media control”—enough for them to convey their strength and puff up their claims to legitimacy while undermining potential alternatives. Such state dominance—whether exerted through overtly state-run or merely state-pliable media outlets—enables regimes to put progovernment narratives front and center while using the power of editorial omission to limit systematic criticism of official policies and actions.“Authoritarian Regimes Re-Tool their Media Control Strategy” by Christopher Walker and Robert Orttung, Washington Post , January 10, 2014.“Authoritarian Regimes and Internet Censorship” by Christopher Walker and Robert Orttung, Center for International Media Assistance, January 27, 2014.
#Fragile States: The Role of Media and Communication##Sponsored by the Center for International Media Assistance at the National Endowment for Democracy Fragile states around the world demand international attention from both the diplomatic and development communities. They are states where governance tends to be weakest and development is most difficult to achieve. Media is often most vulnerable to cooption in these states.Leaders of fragile states, many of which are struggling to overcome conflict or deep-seated political divisions, argue that allowing dissent in the media just makes things worse. Intervening to support media in such environments is complex, liable to be seen as interfering in politics and has rarely been a diplomatic or development priority. But growing analysis suggests that it should be.BBC Media Action’s latest report, Fragile States: the role of media and communication, concludes that media increasingly matter in fragile states and that the transformation of media and communication environments poses not only challenges –but also opportunities – for policy makers concerned with conflict and post-conflict settings.This discussion focused on the challenges and opportunities for media development in fragile states using Iraq, Afghanistan, Kenya, and Somalia as case studies.Featuring:Moderator:  James Deane is the director of policy and learning at BBC Media Action, where he oversees the organization’s research, technical assistance, and policy activities. He has spent more than 30 years working in the field if media development. Deane was a founding member and later executive director of the Panos Institute-London and immediately before joining the BBC World Service Trust (now BBC Media Action) in 2007, managing director of the Communication for Social Change Consortium, a New York-based organization set up by the Rockefeller Foundation. He has provided formal strategic advice and consultancies to several international organizations, mostly related to communication and media in development. He has a master’s degree in international communication and development and has written numerous papers and publications on media, information, and communication technologies. Deane is the commissioning editor of several recent BBC Media Action policy briefings on media in fragile states and author of its recent briefing, Fragile States: the role of media and communication.Ammar al-Shahbander joined IWPR in 2004 and currently holds overall responsibility for activities in Iraq, where IWPR has offices in Baghdad and Erbil. He provides leadership for programs including media related legislation reform, security sector reform, women issues and leadership, and human rights programming. Al-Shahbander holds a degree in sociology and international relations from the University of Westminster in London. He speaks fluent Arabic, Persian, English, and Swedish.Michael Dwyer is a senior program officer with USIP’s Media, Conflict and Peacebuilding Center of Innovation, focusing on traditional media, social media, and data projects in Afghanistan and Pakistan. From 2008-2012 he designed and/or managed media development programs in Afghanistan, Pakistan, India, Sri Lanka, Nepal, and Malaysia, as a regional manager (in Bangkok) and then vice president (in Washington) for Internews. He lived in Afghanistan from 2004-2008, working as country manager of the U.N. Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs IRIN humanitarian radio and news service, and as program manager of a national university journalism and radio training project. Prior to 2004, Dwyer worked in radio and online media for 10 years. He was a freelance correspondent in Southeast Asia, a radio/online producer and presenter at the Australian Broadcasting Corporation, and he worked at university radio stations in Sydney and Adelaide. Dwyer holds a bachelor’s degree in philosophy from the University of Adelaide.Eric Robinson has been with the National Endowment for Democracy for nearly 6 years and is the senior program officer for East, Horn, and Southern Africa. Prior to the Endowment, he worked in Somalia for six months as a consultant with the United Nations and for five years for a small national non-profit organization that did capacity building training for refugee and asylum led civil society organizations in the United States. Eric has a bachelor’s degree in political science from the University of Michigan and a master’s degree in international relations from Wayne State University in Detroit. 
#Democracy Ideas: Larry Diamond Part II, The Arab Spring & the Future of Democracy#December 10, 2013#In this episode of Democracy Ideas, Forum Executive Director Christopher Walker discusses with Larry Diamond the most common misimpressions about ongoing transitions to democracy after the Arab Spring. Larry Diamond also analyzes key developments in Egypt, Tunisia, and Yemen and encourages the international community to continue supporting democratic activists in these three countries.Larry Diamond is a senior fellow at the Hoover Institute and the Freeman Spogli Institute for International Affairs at Stanford University, where he also directs the Center on Democracy, Development, and the Rule of Law. He is co-chair of the Forum Research Council and co-editor of the Forum’s Journal of Democracy. His most recent book is The Spirit of Democracy: The Struggle to Build Free Societies Around the World (Times Books, 2008) and his research and policy analysis are focused on the relationship between democracy, governance, and development in poor countries, particularly in Africa.Read “Why Are There No Arab Democracies?” by Larry Diamond in the Journal of Democracy (Jan. 2010).Watch Part I of the Forum’s Democracy Ideas interview with Larry Diamond on “Is There an Alternative to Democracy?”Watch more Democracy Ideas
#Viva Belarus! film premiere and panel discussion##presented byThe National Endowment for Democracy, Freedom House, Embassy of the Czech Republic, and Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty.Based on the true story of Franak Viachorka and Belarusian youth activists, the film Viva Belarus! depicts the life and fate of nonconformist youth living in “Europe’s last dictatorship.”The groundbreaking film tells the story of 23-year old Miron, whose true passion is music. When his concert triggers an anti-regime protest, Miron is held responsible. Despite a heart condition, he is forcibly drafted into the army. Serving in a remote unit, Miron faces ideological brainwashing and horrible living conditions.Through a hidden mobile phone, Miron informs his girlfriend Viera about the day to day life of a conscript. She posts his diary on the Internet and it soon becomes a sensation among young people. As a result, the regime tries to discredit Miron and crush his spirit.Co-written by Mr. Viachorka, Viva Belarus! is the first feature film about the political situation in Belarus. Officially banned in Belarus, several of the film’s actors were forced to leave the country after its making.In 2013, the film won “Best Screenplay” at the Brussels Film Festival, the “Audience Award” at the Gdynia Film Festival, “Best Film” at Vienna’s GAFFA Film Festival, the “Golden Sable” at the Warsaw International Historical and Military Film Festival, and the “Grand Prix” at the 3rd International Crime and Punishment Film Festival in Istanbul.The film has been shown at festivals throughout Europe, including in the Czech Republic, Portugal, the Netherlands and Lithuania. It recently was screened in the European Parliament.The film was followed by a panel discussion on the role of youth in pushing for positive change in Belarus, which included:The discussion was moderated by Christian Caryl, a Senior Fellow at the Legatum Institute and a Contributing Editor at Foreign Policy magazine.
#10th Annual Lipset Lecture: Ethnic Power-Sharing and Democracy: Three Big Problems##Donald L. Horowitz, James B. Duke Professor of Law and Political Science Emeritus, Duke UniversityDonald L. Horowitz is the James B. Duke Professor of Law and Political Science Emeritus at Duke University, and Senior Fellow at the International Forum for Democratic Studies. He is the author of seven books: The Courts and Social Policy (1977), which won the Louis Brownlow Award of the National Academy of Public Administration; The Jurocracy (1977), a book about government lawyers; Coup Theories and Officers’ Motives: Sri Lanka in Comparative Perspective (1980); Ethnic Groups in Conflict (1985, 2000); A Democratic South Africa? Constitutional Engineering in a Divided Society (1991), which won the Ralph Bunche Prize of the American Political Science Association; The Deadly Ethnic Riot (2001); and Constitutional Change and Democracy in Indonesia (2013), published by Cambridge University Press. Prof. Horowitz has been a visiting professor at the University of Chicago Law School and at the Central European University and a visiting fellow at Wolfson College, Cambridge, at the Law Faculty of the University of Canterbury in New Zealand, and at Universiti Kebangsaan in Malaysia. In 2001, he was Centennial Professor at the London School of Economics, and in 2001–02, he was a Carnegie Scholar. In 2009, he was presented with the Distinguished Scholar Award of the Ethnicity, Nationalism, and Migration Section of the International Studies Association.LocationThe Embassy of Canada 501 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, D.C.See photos from the event on the Forum’s Facebook page.The National Endowment for Democracy would like to thank the following donors for their generous support of this event:The Seymour Martin Lipset Lecture on Democracy in the World was inaugurated in 2004 by the International Forum for Democratic Studies at the National Endowment for Democracy (NED) and the Munk Centre for International Studies of the University of Toronto as an important new forum for discourse on democracy and its progress worldwide.The lecture is named for one of the great democratic scholars and public intellectuals of the twentieth century. Seymour Martin Lipset’s scholarship on such themes as the conditions for democracy, political parties, voting behavior, extremist movements, ideologies, and public opinion constitutes one of the most prolific, insightful, and widely read bodies of work on democracy ever produced by a single author.Lipset was also one of the most important comparative analysts of the two great democracies of North America, and a strong advocate for US-Canadian cooperation. The joint US-Canadian sponsorship of the Lipset Lecture provides an opportunity for influential audiences in both countries to hear and discuss a major intellectual statement on democracy each year. It serves as a catalyst for further cooperation between Canada and the United States in the promotion of democracy and democratic ideas around the world.The Lipset Lecture is delivered in both the US and Canada. It is an intellectual platform for men and women who, like Lipset, have made important contributions to our thinking about key issues of democracy through their writings and other accomplishments.While some lecturers may be known primarily for their academic achievements, others will have records of public service that equal their intellectual stature. The lecture is published each year in NED’s Journal of Democracy.
#Two Faces of Chinese Media: International Expansion, Internal Censorship##presented byThe Center for International Media Assistance (CIMA) and the Asia Program at the National Endowment for Democracyfeaturing moderated by Louisa Greve, National Endowment for DemocracyTuesday, October 22, 2013 2:00–3:30 PM1025 F Street, N.W., Suite 800, Washington, D.C. 20004 Telephone: 202-378-9675 While news media in Western countries are struggling against poor economic conditions and technological disruption, China has elevated media into a major component of its international grand strategy. The country’s premier external outlet, CCTV, operates strategically around the world, producing sophisticated long-form reports on complex international issues on a daily basis. Yet censorship within China’s borders and pressure on news organizations outside of China impede independent reporting about China itself. How and why do these two models coexist? This CIMA panel discussion focused on this dichotomy and marked the launch of CIMA’s two reports: CCTV’s International Expansion: China’s Grand Strategy for Media and The Long Shadow of Chinese Censorship: How the Communist Party’s Media Restrictions Affect News Outlets Around the World.Anne Nelson is an international media consultant who has worked with a number of major foundations and media organizations in recent years. She created and teaches a course in new media and development communications at Columbia University’s School of International and Public Affairs. She is a former journalist and served as the director of the Committee to Protect Journalists, where she helped to found the International Freedom of Expression Exchange (IFEX). She received a Guggenheim Fellowship for her research on her recent book, Red Orchestra, which describes practices of mass media propaganda and resistance samizdat in Nazi Germany. Nelson serves as the principal researcher and editor for the World Association of Newspapers’ ongoing studies on global media markets, the first installment of which was Financially Viable Media in Emerging Markets (2011). She is a graduate of Yale University, a member of the Council on Foreign Relations, and the author of five previous CIMA research reports.Sarah Cook is a senior research analyst for East Asia at Freedom House. She manages the editorial team producing the China Media Bulletin, a biweekly news digest of media freedom developments related to the People’s Republic of China. Previously she served as assistant editor for the Freedom on the Net project, an index that tracks Internet freedom around the world. Cook is the author of several articles and numerous country reports examining media freedom and democratic governance. Her comments and writings have appeared on CNN, the International Herald Tribune, the Taipei Times, and the U.S. Congressional-Executive Commission on China. Before joining Freedom House, she co-edited the English translation of A China More Just, a memoir by prominent rights attorney Gao Zhisheng, and was twice a delegate to the United Nations Human Rights Commission meeting in Geneva for an NGO working on religious freedom in China. She received a BA in International Relations from Pomona College and as a Marshall Scholar completed master’s degrees in politics and international law at the School of Oriental and African Studies in London.Yaxue Cao is the founder and editor of ChinaChange.org, a website devoted to news and commentary related to civil society, rule of law, and rights activities in China. The site works with China’s democracy advocates to bring their voices into English and to help the rest of the world understand what people are thinking and doing to effect change in China. Its reports often provide leads for major media outlets. It translated key documents, such as Xu Zhiyong’s The New Citizens’ Movement. The site has appeared in the New York Times, the Economist, BBC, the Atlantic, and in Congressional hearings over the last two years. Cao has published short stories in literary quarterlies and translations in the New York Times and on the Foreign Policy website. She grew up in northern China during the Cultural Revolution and studied literature in the United States. She lives in Washington, DC. Louisa Greve is vice president for Asia, Middle East & North Africa, and Global Programs at the National Endowment for Democracy. She has studied, worked, and traveled in Asia since 1980 and has testified before congressional committees on human rights in China and democracy promotion in Asia. She was a member of the AEI/Armitage International Taiwan Policy Working Group (2007) and the Council on Foreign Relations Term Member Roundtable on U.S. National Security–New Threats in a Changing World (2002). Greve served as a member of the board of directors of Amnesty International USA from 1993 to 1998, and was a volunteer China and Mongolia specialist for Amnesty from 1990 to 1999. She served two terms as a member of the Virginia State Advisory Committee of the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights (2007-2011).  
#Russia: A Postmodern Dictatorship?##presented byThe International Forum for Democratic Studies at the National Endowment for Democracy, the Legatum Institute, and the Institute of Modern Russia.WithIntroductory RemarksModerated by Christian Caryl, Editor, Democracy Lab and a Senior Fellow at the Legatum Institute.Tuesday, October 15, 2013 4:00–5:30 pmSee photos from the event. ::MOREWatch a recording of the event:With his third (de facto fourth) term well underway, Vladimir Putin continues to use the language and institutions of democratic capitalism to consolidate his power. The panel discussed how Russia’s democratic façade has masked the construction of a new authoritarian model.The appearance of democratic institutions, including pseudo-elections, some elements of media freedom, and a quasi-market economy, has helped subdue external criticism, while Russia’s hard-edged influence in its region and in global affairs remains strong. Christian Caryl moderated a conversation on how this new authoritarianism works inside Russia, what it means for relationships with the West, and how it affects what Russia’s leadership views as its “near abroad.”The discussion was based on “Russia: A Postmodern Dictatorship?” by Peter Pomerantsev. This was the first in a series of studies commissioned jointly by the Legatum Institute and the Institute of Modern Russia to analyze the challenges of transition in the former Soviet Union.Peter Pomerantsev is a British author and documentary producer. His writing on Russia features regularly in the London Review of Books, Newsweek/Daily Beast, openDemocracy, Le Monde Diplomatique and other European and US publications. He has also worked as a consultant on EU and World Bank development projects in the former USSR. He is the winner of the SOPA (Society of Press in Asia) award for writing about Mongolia and was a fellow of the ‘Russia in Global Dialogue’ program at the Institut für die Wissenschaften vom Menschen (IWM) in Vienna. His first book on society and politics in 21st Century Russia will be published by Faber in 2013.Vladimir V. Kara-Murza is a member of the federal council of the Republican Party of Russia–People’s Freedom Party. He was a candidate for the Russian parliament in 2003, and has served as the campaign chairman for presidential candidate Vladimir Bukovsky (2007–08) and as an advisor to Duma opposition leader Boris Nemtsov (2000–03). He is a senior policy advisor at the Institute of Modern Russia and a member of the Coordinating Council of the Russian Opposition.Christopher Walker is executive director of the National Endowment for Democracy’s International Forum for Democratic Studies, a leading center for the analysis of the theory and practice of democratic development. Prior to joining the NED in July 2012, Walker was vice president for strategy and analysis at Freedom House. He has been published in the Wall Street Journal, New York Times, Washington Post, Journal of Democracy, and a range of other publications.Carl Gershman has been president of the National Endowment for Democracy since its founding in 1984. He presides over the Endowment’s grants program in Africa, Asia, the Middle East, Eastern Europe, the former Soviet Union, and Latin America, and has overseen the creation of NED’s signature programs and publications.Pavel Khodorkovsky founded the Institute of Modern Russia (IMR) in 2010 to continue the work his father Mikhail Khodorkovsky began through the Open Russia Foundation. IMR is committed to strengthening respect for human rights, the rule of law, and civil society in Russia, and to promoting a principles-based approach to U.S.-Russia relations and Russia’s integration into the community of democracies.Christian Caryl is editor of Democracy Lab, a Legatum Institute website published in partnership with Foreign Policy magazine. Democracy Lab follows global transitions from authoritarianism to democracy. Caryl worked for a year as Washington bureau chief of RFE/RL, and from 2000 to 2009 he was a foreign correspondent for Newsweek, running the magazine’s bureaus in Moscow and Tokyo.
#Crisis in the Central African Republic##presented byThe Great Lakes Policy Forum, the National Democratic Institute, and the National Endowment for Democracyfeaturingmoderated by Ambassador Laurence D. Wohlers, Former US Ambassador to the Central African Republic   Friday, September 27, 2013 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m.1025 F Street, N.W., Suite 800, Washington, D.C. 20004 Telephone: 202-378-9675 On March 24, 2013, the Seleka rebels seized control of the capital of the Central African Republic (CAR), Bangui, forcing President Francois Bozize to flee. Current President Michel Djotodia faces the difficult task of restoring order and organizing elections once the 18-month transition period expires. The Central African legislature and civil society members discussed the latest crisis situation in the Central African Republic, impacting the Great Lakes region as a whole.Emilie Béatrice Epaye is the Co-Founder and current President of the Voice of the Heart Foundation, the first non-profit organization to support and reintegrate street children in the Central African Republic. She is also the Co-Founder of the French Alliance of Bangui.She was President of the Foreign Affairs Commission of the National Assembly as well as a member of the National Transitional Council from 2003 to 2005, which drafted the country’s constitution in 2004. During the same time, Emilie Béatrice Epaye was a member of the Inter-Parliamentary Commission of the Economic and Monetary Community of Central Africa (CEMAC).For nearly five years, Emilie Béatrice Epaye was Minister of Commerce, Industry and Small and Medium Enterprises (2005-2006) and Minister of Trade and Industry (2008-2011). As Minister of Trade and Industry in 2008 she chaired the Board of Directors of the African Intellectual Property Organization (OAPI). In this capacity she chaired the first African Conference on Intellectual Property in Dakar organized by OAPI. She has been heavily involved as a member of the Council of Ministers of the Economic Union of Central Africa (CAEU), which earned her the Medal of Grand Officer of the Order of Merit from the CEMAC Community (2010).After studying theology at the Theological Institute in Yamoussoukro, Ivory Coast (1987-1991),  Nicolas Guerekoyame Gbangou became Reverend of a church in Bangassou, Central African Republic. During his long time engagement with the Christian Youth of CAR, he was the first elected Vice-President and Chairman of the Executive Committee of the Alliance of Evangelicals in 2010. He is also Chairman of the Regional Association of Evangelical Churches. Additionally, he is National Advisor to the National Transitional Council and a member of the platform of religious denominations in Bangui.Maitre Mathias Morouba is a lawyer and legal counsel at the International Criminal Court for the Central African Republic.  He is currently a PhD candidate at the University of Bangui, after obtaining his Inter-University Postgraduate Diploma in Fundamental Rights from the University of Paris X and Nantes University and a Master’s degree in private law at the University of Bangui. He also specialized in economic, social and cultural rights at the Summer of Human Rights in Geneva, Switzerland (OIDEL SUHR).Maitre Mathias Morouba is currently a lecturer of rights and criminology at the private law school Walombe. Furthermore, Maitre Morouba is President of the Central Observatory of Human Rights (OCDH), First Vice President of the Episcopal Commission for Justice and Peace of the Catholic Bishops Conference, and deputy coordinator of the Network of NGOs on Human Rights in Central Africa. He is also responsible for coordinating the organizations of civil society members of the International Conference of the Great Lakes Region.The Right Reverend Nestor Nongo Aziagbia has been bishop of the diocese of Bossangoa since 2012. He is also Vice-President of the Central African Episcopal Conference for 2013. He belongs to the Society of African Missions and spent many years on a mission in Nigeria (1998 to 2004) and has held several positions in the diocese of Strasbourg, France (chaplain of the College of African Missions, Chaplain of Scouts, chaplaincy civil Hospital of Haguenau, Head of the Chapel of the African Missions and pastor of the parish community – Earth Mission) from 2004 to 2012.Dave Peterson is the Senior Director of the Africa Program of the National Endowment for Democracy, a privately-incorporated, publicly-funded grant-making organization in Washington, DC. Since 1988, he has been responsible for NED’s program to identify and assist hundreds of African non-governmental organizations and activists working for democracy, human rights, free press, justice and peace. He was formerly executive director of Project South Africa of the A. Philip Randolph Educational Fund, and a freelance journalist in Africa and Turkey. He has a BA from Columbia College and an MA from the Columbia Graduate School of Journalism in New York, as well as an MA in African Studies and International Economics from the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies in Washington, DC. He has visited more than 40 African countries since 1984, and has published numerous articles on African politics.Ambassador Laurence D. Wohlers is a retired American diplomat whose career spanned 16 postings in Africa, Europe, Asia, and Washington, D.C. He most recently served as the US Ambassador to the Central African Republic, where he led US government engagement on development assistance, election monitoring, supporting human rights and good governance, and combating the Lord’s Resistance Army (LRA). He also helped organize a regional forum to foster greater cooperation in the struggle against elephant poaching.  In December 2012, he directed the successful evacuation of the American community from CAR as rebel forces marched on the capital.
#The Role of Economics in Democratic Transitions: Kenya##presented by The International Forum for Democratic Studies at the National Endowment for Democracy and The Legatum Institute, in association with World Affairs and Democracy Lab.withIntroductory Remarks Moderated byThursday, October 17, 2013 4:00–5:30 pmWatch the event:View photos from the event on the Forum’s Facebook page.After teetering on the brink of civil war in the aftermath of post-election violence in 2007, Kenya achieved significant reforms which helped to promote a peaceful electoral process in 2013 that contributed to a strengthening of its democracy. Following this success, stabilizing the economy is now essential to allow Kenya to consolidate its democratic progress and meet the rising expectations of society.Kenya requires further reforms to maintain strong economic growth, reduce unemployment, and create entrepreneurial opportunities for the long-term. Drawing upon her experience in the private sector working with both government and international partners, Carole Kariuki discussed why economic reform is integral to Kenya’s democratic progress.The Kenya case study is the third lecture in a series on “The Role of Economics in Democratic Transitions” organized by the Legatum Institute, the National Endowment for Democracy’s International Forum for Democratic Studies, and World Affairs that explores the link between economic reform and political transitions.Carole Kariuki is CEO of the Kenya Private Sector Alliance (KEPSA), a consortium seeking to create a vibrant business environment in Kenya and East Africa. Carole was appointed the CEO of KEPSA in 2010 at the age of 35 and has more than 10 years of experience working with governments and the private sector. Prior to her appointment as CEO she had previously worked with Barclays Bank in Kenya and was a Research Fellow and later an Associate at the Sagamore Institute for Public Policy Research in Indianapolis. During this time she initiated and led the Africa Program. She holds a Masters in Public Administration and International Affairs from the Bowling Green State University in Ohio and a Bachelor of Arts (Honors) in Economics and Sociology from the University of Nairobi.Peter Lewis is an associate professor and the director of the African Studies Program at Johns Hopkins University’s School of Advanced International Studies. His research and teaching focus on economic reform and political transition in developing countries, with particular emphasis on governance and development in sub-Saharan Africa. His most recent book, Growing Apart: Oil, Politics, and Economic Change in Indonesia and Nigeria (Michigan, 2007), is concerned with the institutional basis of economic development. He is also a member of the International Forum for Democratic Studies Research Council.John Sullivan is the executive director of the Center for International Private Enterprise (CIPE), a Washington-based organization that aims to strengthen democracy around the globe through private enterprise and market-oriented reform. Under Sullivan’s leadership CIPE has developed a number of innovative approaches that link democratic development to market reforms. He is a member of the Council on Foreign Relations, the Russian Institute of Directors’ Advisory Board, the Bretton Woods Association, and the American Political Science Association.    
#Reconsidering Democratic Transitions##Thursday, September 19, 2013 10:15 a.m. – 2:00 p.m.National Endowment for Democracy 1025 F Street, NW, Suite 800 Washington, DC 20004 202-378-9675Watch the full presentation on YouTube here :: MORESee photos from the event on Facebook. ::MORERead a transcript of the second panel on “Reconsidering the Transition Paradigm” published in the January 2014 issue of the Journal of Democracy. ::PDFThe mass uprisings in the Middle East and North Africa represent the most important opportunity for democracy since the fall of Soviet communism. Two-and-a-half years after the onset of the movements against the region’s repressive governments, the extent of the democratic reform challenge has become clearer, raising a host of vexing questions for reformers in these countries and policy makers outside them.During the event, two panels of experts assessed the transition experiences from the post-Soviet world and North Africa, and examined fundamental questions relating to democratic transitions.This event is part of the Reconsidering Democratic Transitions conference series sponsored by the International Forum for Democratic Studies.10:15 a.m. WelcomeCarl Gershman, President, National Endowment for Democracy10:30 a.m. Panel I: The Arab Spring and the Color RevolutionsModerator: Christopher Walker, International Forum for Democratic StudiesWatch the first panel: Lunch12:30 p.m. Panel II: Revisiting the Transition ParadigmModerator: Marc F. Plattner, International Forum for Democratic StudiesWatch the second panel:2:00 p.m. Conclude
#NED Mourns Jean Bethke Elshtain#August 13, 2013#The staff and Board of Directors of the National Endowment for Democracy (NED) were deeply saddened to learn that long-time Board Member and dear friend of NED Jean Bethke Elshtain died on Sunday, August 11, 2013.“Jean Elshtain was America’s preeminent public intellectual,” said NED President Carl Gershman. “She was a great believer in democracy and the values of liberty and individual responsibility that under-pin it. She was a beloved member of the NED Board of Directors and a most worthy recipient of NED’s Democracy Service Medal. She will be sorely missed, but remembering her will continue to inspire our work.”Elshtain, who was the Laura Spelman Rockefeller Professor of Social and Political Ethics at the University of Chicago Divinity School, served on the Endowment’s Board from 2003-2011 and was the Board specialist for NED’s South Asia and global programs. When he presented the Democracy Service Medal to Elshtain in 2011, Gershman remembered that, “…her favorite project was the quaintly named Pakistan Fisherfolk Forum, a Karachi-based grassroots social movement with 60,000 (dues paying) members that works to protect the rights of Pakistan’s large inland and coastal fisherfolk community from abuse by government, landowners, and other powerful interests. It had all the qualities that Jean likes: real people, tied to their local communities, working together to solve real problems, such as getting the Pakistani authorities to release jailed Indian fisherfolk, or to get a paramilitary border force to vacate fishing grounds it had illegally occupied.”The full Democracy Service Medal tribute to Elshtain is available here.Elshtain was also an important contributor to the intellectual life of NED, and in 2008 was selected to deliver the annual Seymour Martin Lipset Lecture on Democracy in the World. Her topic, Democracy and Religion: Allies or Antagonists, explored a frequent intersection of her scholarship and life’s work, the role of religion in public life. An article based on the lecture was published by NED’s Journal of Democracy in April 2009.Elshtain believed deeply in the mission of the National Endowment for Democracy, and in the broader struggle of all who risk so much to advance basic rights and freedoms. She spoke eloquently at a memorial for Czech dissident and President Vaclav Havel organized by NED in January 2012, reminding those present of his call to live in truth; to live “as if” there was freedom; to imagine the alternatives to life in a totalitarian system and to act on that imagination, fully aware of the price that might be paid as a result.  
#Beyond the Elections in Zimbabwe##Sponsored by the National Endowment for Democracy, the Center for International Private Enterprise, Freedom House, the International Republican Institute, the Solidarity Center, the National Democratic Institute, and the Robert F. Kennedy Center for Justice & Human Rights.As recent elections in Kenya, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, and Cote d’Ivoire show, elections are a necessary, but not the only, condition for democracy. Days before the upcoming elections in Zimbabwe, this conference brought together civil society activists, and political analysts, along with representatives from the U.S. government and NGOs, to focus on strengthening democracy in Zimbabwe.Carl Gershman, President, National Endowment for Democracy (Remarks)U.S. Senator Jeff Flake, Arizona – Ranking Member, Subcommittee on African Affairs, Committee on Foreign RelationsYouth: Glanis Changachirere, Founder, Institute for Young Women DevelopmentWomen: Jenni Williams, Founder, Women of Zimbabwe ArisePrivate sector: Oswell Binha, President, Zimbabwe National Chamber of CommerceMedia: Foster Dongozi, Secretary-General, Zimbabwe Union of JournalistsUnions: Japhet Moyo, General Secretary, Zimbabwe Congress of Trade Unions (ZCTU)Moderator: Imani Countess, Regional Program Director for Africa, Solidarity CenterSecurity Sector: Martin Rupiya, Executive Director, The African Public Policy & Research Institute (APPRI)Rule of Law: Irene Petras, Executive Director, Zimbabwe Lawyers for Human Rights (ZLHR)Legislature: Jabusile Shumba, Executive Officer, IDAZIMConstitution: Dewa Mahvinga, Senior Researcher, Human Rights WatchModerator: Daniel W. Fisk, Vice President for Policy and Strategic Planning, International Republican Institute (IRI)Documentary created by the World Movement for DemocracyQ & A with Glanis Changachirere and Terence Chitapi         African trends: Almami Cyllah, Regional Director, Africa, International Foundation for Electoral Systems (IFES)Regional bodies: Keith Jennings, Senior Associate and Regional Director for Southern and East Africa, National Democratic InstituteDiaspora: Norbert Mugwagwa, Zimbabwe Diaspora NetworkEngaging Zimbabwe: Ibbo Mandaza, Director, SAPES TrustModerator: David J. Kramer, President, Freedom House 
#The Role of Media Development in Democratic Transitions: The Case of Southern Africa##Featuring:Author, South Africa’s Media 20 Years After ApartheidAfrican Media InitiativeNational Endowment for DemocracyInternational Center for JournalistsModerated by:AllAfrica Global Media 2:00-3:30 p.m.1025 F Street, N.W., Suite 800, Washington, DC 20004 Telephone: 202-378-9700 Follow the event @CIMA_Media on Twitter: #cimaeventsRSVP (acceptances only) with name and affiliation by July 23   A vibrant and diverse media culture is an essential facet to any democratic transition. This was evident in South Africa’s transition from apartheid censorship to democracy and freedom of expression, but according to Freedom House’s Freedom of the Press Survey, the country’s media freedom declined from Free to Partly Free in 2010. Is what was dubbed the miracle of South Africa coming undone? Does this pattern of declining media freedom extend throughout southern Africa?Join us for the launch of CIMA’s newest report, South Africa’s Media 20 Years After Apartheid, and for a discussion about the role of media development in democratic transitions in southern Africa. Panelists will focus on the importance of media development in the region, the challenges of the past 20 years, and how to work for a more open and diverse media environment throughout the region.   Libby Lloyd works as a researcher, consultant, and freelancer in South Africa, focusing mainly on media and broadcasting policy and regulatory issues. She began her career as a journalist in radio and print media but was diverted into policy and media development work in the 1990s. She has been appointed as a member of the council regulating broadcasting and telecommunications in South Africa, was the first CEO of the Media Development and Diversity Agency, and served briefly as a member of the interim board of the South African Broadcasting Corporation. She has been involved in research into funding options for the regulator for the Department of Communications) research into models for public broadcasting for the Open Society Foundation, a review of South African content policies, and a study into criminalization of journalism for the African Freedom of Expression rapporteur. Lloyd has been appointed by the minister of communications to serve on an advisory panel responsible for reviewing all ICT policies and legislation in South Africa and is the chairperson of the broadcasting sub-committee of the panel.Dave Peterson is the senior director of the Africa program of the National Endowment for Democracy. Since 1988, he has been responsible for the NED’s program to identify and assist hundreds of African non-governmental organizations and activists working for democracy, human rights, free press, justice, and peace. He was formerly executive director of Project South Africa of the A. Philip Randolph Educational Fund, and a freelance journalist in Africa and Turkey. He has a BA from Columbia College and an MS from the Columbia Graduate School of Journalism in New York, as well as an MA in African Studies and International Economics from the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies in Washington, DC. He has visited more than 40 African countries since 1984 and has published numerous articles on African politics.Amadou Mahtar Ba is the chief executive of the African Media Initiative (AMI), a pan-African effort aimed at providing the continent’s media owners and practitioners with the necessary tools to play an effective role in their societies. AMI aims to strengthen the media sector in Africa to ensure the accountability of governments and other institutions and to promote democratic governance, human development, and economic growth. He is also a co-founder and Chairman of AllAfrica Global Media, Inc., the largest distributor of African news and information worldwide. He is an advisory board member of the Reporting Developing Network Africa as well as a member of the African Leadership Network, the Global Council for the Future of Journalism, the Advisory Committee of the Knight International Journalism Fellowships, and the Africa Policy Advisory Board of ONE. He holds master’s degrees from the Ecole Francaise des Professionnels de la Communication in Paris and from the Paris 7 University (Jussieu).Jerri Eddings is a veteran journalist with extensive experience in the United States and Africa as a reporter, editor, television producer, and director of media training programs. She is currently a program director with the International Center for Journalists in Washington, DC, responsible for coordinating global programs, including the Knight Health and Development Fellowships in sub-Saharan Africa. During the course of her journalism career, she worked as a foreign correspondent for the Baltimore Sun in Southern Africa, as chief congressional correspondent for U.S. News & World Report magazine in Washington, DC; as director of the Freedom Forum’s Africa media center in Johannesburg, South Africa; and as director of Africa programming for Howard University Television (WHUT), a PBS station in Washington. Eddings is a former Nieman fellow at Harvard University and a graduate of the University of South Carolina.Reed Kramer is co-founder and CEO of AllAfrica Global Media, a digital pioneer and publisher of allAfrica.com, which publishes  more than 1,500 posts daily–original reporting and analysis plus aggregated content from 130 African media organizations and hundreds of international sources. AllAfrica serves a global audience of policymakers, business executives, investors, analysts, diplomats, media professionals, scholars, and activists, with further distribution on social media and through such clients as LexisNexis, Bloomberg, Factiva (Dow Jones), Financial Times and L’Européenne de Données. Kramer has reported from and about Africa for the Washington Post, Le Monde Diplomatique, CNN, the BBC, PBS Newshour, and NPR, among others. He is a graduate of Duke University, a member of the Council on Foreign Relations and co-recipient of a Media Award for Lifetime Achievement from the Africa America Institute in New York.
#Democracy and Reconciliation in Kyrgyzstan: A Case for the Mobilization of Youth##Sponsored by The International Forum for Democratic Studies at the National Endowment for DemocracyPowerpoint Presentation :: PDFEvent Highlights :: PDFfeaturing Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellow, National Endowment for Democracywith comments byProject Manager, Open Society Justice Initiative (New York)and moderated by International Forum for Democratic Studies Violent clashes in June 2010 between the ethnic Kyrgyz and Uzbek populations of southern Kyrgyzstan and the recent intensification of nationalistic tendencies demand widespread participation in conflict prevention and peace building. As sixty percent of Kyrgyzstan’s population, young people will be integral to future decision-making and policy planning procedures. In view of this, creating formal and informal spaces for youth participation in political life should be prioritized by both the government and the donor community.In her presentation Ms. Nadira Eshmatova focused on the challenges facing youth in Kyrgyzstan, as well as on how the country’s ongoing socio-political transition is shaping opportunities for youth activism. She suggested ways in which organizations working with youth can ensure that young people are actively involved in the reconciliation and democracy building processes in Kyrgyzstan. Ms. Eshmatova concluded by suggesting strategies to better engage Kyrgyz and Uzbek youth, especially in the south of Kyrgyzstan.Her presentation was followed by comments from Ms. Maria Lisitsyna.Ms. Nadira Eshmatova is co-founder and executive director of the Youth Human Rights Group (YHRG), a Bishkek-based nongovernmental organization that monitors and reports on human rights abuses in Central Asia. Over the course of her career at YHRG, she has developed and facilitated numerous professional trainings for activists, lawyers, and NGO colleagues; participated in monitoring the rights of refugee children, orphans, and juveniles in the justice system; taught human rights classes at schools in Bishkek; coordinated educational programs for teachers; and directed advanced courses on international human rights standards. She has also taught international law at Kyrgyz National University and has served as an independent election observer in Norway and Kyrgyzstan. During her fellowship, Ms. Eshmatova is studying youth activism in post-conflict Kyrgyzstan, specifically its capacity to facilitate change both inside and outside the country’s political system, and its role in promoting reconciliation between Kyrgyz and Uzbek elements in Kyrgyz society.Ms. Maria Lisitsyna is the project manager of “Legal Remedies for Torture in Central Asia” at the Open Society Justice Initiative in New York and a former Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellow at the Endowment. 
#Black Code: Inside the Battle for Cyberspace##Black Code: Inside the Battle for Cyberspace from National Endowment for Democracy on Vimeo.Author, Black Code: Inside the Battle for Cyberspace Director, Canada Centre for Global Security Studies and the Citizen Lab at the Munk School of Global Affairs at the University of TorontoPresident and CEO, Center for Democracy and TechnologyChair of the Advisory Committee, American Bar Association Standing Committee on Law and National SecurityModerator:Senior Research Fellow, New America Foundation The National Endowment for Democracy (NED) hosted a panel on June 24, 2013, a timely discussion which focused on Ronald J. Deibert’s new book, Black Code: Inside the Battle for Cyberspace. The book explores the Internet’s relationship to citizenship, democracy, and human rights.The featured panelists included: Ronald Deibert, Director of the Canada Centre for Global Security Studies and the Citizen Lab at the Munk School of Global Affairs at the University of Toronto; Leslie Harris, President and CEO of the Center for Democracy and Technology; Harvey Rishikof, Chair of the Advisory Committee of the American Bar Association Standing Committee on Law and National Security; and moderator Rebecca MacKinnon, a Senior Research Fellow at the New America Foundation.In a comprehensive and varied discussion, panelists conversed about the threats to cyberspace, its securitization, and the implications for government, civil society, and global Internet governance. The role of the Internet in supporting democratic development efforts around the world was also discussed.As technology becomes increasingly more innovative, the sophistication of its uses also advances.  Citizens can employ the Internet for social media and communication, but governments have the capacity to use the Internet to conduct citizen surveillance and restrict human rights, an experience seen first-hand in countries like Syria, Libya, China and Iran.These phenomena mark the era of “big data,” characterized by the paradox of simultaneously using the Internet extensively, while knowing very little about how it works. The workings of cyberspace are “shrouded in secrecy,” even while people are “constantly secreting data,” said Deibert.This paradox has profound impacts on the nature of governance. Since the end of the Cold War, the role of telecommunications in geopolitical struggles has become more important, and increasing amounts of power have been delegated to security agencies, Deibert said. Such architecture is “not a good recipe for liberal democracy,” he said.The proliferation of Internet security measures has become a global issue. Deibert said that many filtering practices of authoritarian regimes are powered by technology created in the United States.“Surveillance technology is leaking out,” he said. “[There is] a very real arms race in cyberspace.”He argued that civil society should adopt a “distributed security” paradigm, which is based upon the principles of mixture, division and restraint.Deibert said the importance of “mixture”—that there are a variety of actors involved—from civil society, the private sector, and the government ensures that “no one monopolize[s] [the] discussion.”Civil society generally stands in opposition to any security-related measure, even though simply “engag[ing] in the no” can be counterproductive, Harris said. Rather, “as a community we need to shift…to take on some of the challenges that we’re facing through a human rights frame.” Otherwise, citizens risk giving the power to people who care a lot about security, but without the frame, she said.Internet security is paramount to human rights, and orienting human rights in opposition to this security can be harmful, Harris said.Accountability also came up in the discussion, emerging as a major concern for Internet freedom and security.And in order to achieve accountability, Harris said, rule of law and an understanding of the rules by all stakeholders are required.Handling the issues of compliance and accountability will be the major challenge to securing the Internet, which is a social right, Rishikof said. Additionally, determining where sovereignty resides—whether with the private sector, the product, the U.S. Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) court, or the U.S. Congress—will be crucial.While some of these threats to cybersecurity have alarmed a wide range of society, the answer is not to unplug, Deibert said.Ronald J. Deibert is Professor of Political Science and Director of the Canada Centre for Global Security Studies and the Citizen Lab at the Munk School of Global Affairs, University of Toronto. The Citizen Lab is an interdisciplinary research and development hothouse working at the intersection of the Internet, global security, and human rights. He is a co-founder and a principal investigator of the OpenNet Initiative and the Information Warfare Monitor.Deibert was one of the authors of the “Tracking Ghostnet” report that documented an alleged cyber-espionage network affecting over 1200 computers in 103 countries, and the Shadows in the Cloud report, which analyzed a cloud-based espionage network. He is a co-editor of three major volumes with MIT Press—Access Denied: The Practice and Policy of Internet Filtering (2008), Access Controlled: The Shaping of Power, Rights, and Rule in Cyberspace (2010), and Access Contested: Security, Identity, and Resistance in Asian Cyberspace (2011). He is also the author of Parchment, Printing, and Hypermedia: Communications in World Order Transformation (New York: Columbia University Press, 1997) and Black Code: Inside the Battle for Cyberspace (Signal/McClelland & Stewart/Random House, 2013). This year he was appointed to the Order of Ontario, and awarded the Queen Elizabeth II Diamond Jubilee medal for being “among the first to recognize and take measures to mitigate growing threats to communications rights, openness and security worldwide.”Leslie Harris is the President and CEO of the Center for Democracy & Technology (“CDT”) www.cdt.org, the leading Internet freedom organization working at the vanguard of technology and policy innovation. She is a widely-recognized expert for her work on policy issues related to civil liberties, new technologies and the Internet including free expression, government and consumer privacy, cyber security, Internet governance and global Internet freedom. In the United States, Harris frequently testifies before Congress and federal agencies, and serves on federal governmental advisory committees. She was recently named a senior fellow at the University of Colorado’s Silicon Flatiron Center for Law, Technology and Entrepreneurship.Harvey Rishikof currently has a joint appointment at Drexel University in the law school and University and is the chair of the Advisory Board for the ABA Standing Committee on Law and National Security. He is a member of the Board of Visitors for the National Intelligence University and on the Advisory Board for the Harvard National Security Law Journal. His last position with the government was the Senior Policy Advisor to the Director of National Counterintelligence Executive (NCIX-ODNI) and is previous chair of the American Bar Association Standing Committee on Law and National Security. Rishikof is a lifetime member of the American Law Institute and the Council on Foreign Relations. He was a federal law clerk in the Third Circuit for the Honorable Leonard I. Garth, a Social Studies Tutor at Harvard University, attorney at Hale and Dorr, Administrative Assistant to the Chief Justice of the United States, legal counsel for the deputy director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and dean of Roger Williams School of Law in RI.Rebecca MacKinnon is a journalist and activist whose work focuses on the intersection of the Internet, human rights, and foreign policy. As a senior fellow at the New America Foundation, she examines U.S. policies related to the Internet, human rights, and global Internet freedom. Her first book, Consent of the Networked, was published in January 2012 by Basic Books. MacKinnon is cofounder of Global Voices Online, a global citizen media network, and is also a founding member of the Global Network Initiative, a multi-stakeholder initiative to advance principles of freedom of expression and privacy in the information and communications technology sector. MacKinnon worked as a journalist for CNN in Beijing for nine years, serving as the network’s Beijing bureau chief. She also served as Tokyo bureau chief. She has held several fellowship positions, including with Harvard’s Joan Shorenstein Center on the Press and Public Policy, the Berkman Center for Internet and Society, the Open Society Foundations, and Princeton’s Center for Information Technology Policy. From 2007-2008, she served on the faculty of the University of Hong Kong’s Journalism and Media Studies Centre, where she taught online journalism and conducted research on Chinese Internet censorship.  
#Can Democracy Work for Women in Burma?##Can Democracy Work for Women in Burma? with Nang Lao Liang Won from National Endowment for Democracy on Vimeo.Sponsored by the International Forum for Democratic Studiesat the National Endowment for DemocracyPowerpoint Presentation :: PDFEvent Highlights :: PDFfeaturingReagan-Fascell Fellow, National Endowment for Democracywith comments bySenior Director for Asia and Global Programs, National Endowment for Democracymoderated bySenior Director, Fellowship Programs, International Forum for Democratic StudiesThroughout Burma’s history, women have played a critical role in political and social movements, yet their stories are often overlooked or left out of official records. To this day, the decision-making bodies of all spheres of society, ranging from village to state levels, continue to be dominated by men, reflecting the country’s culturally conservative stance toward women.In her presentation, Tay Tay discussed women’s unique contributions to political developments in Burma and used her experiences as an activist to highlight the indispensable role played by multi-ethnic women’s groups along Burma’s borders in the country’s struggle for democracy. She identified opportunities available to women in light of the current opening in Burma, as well as obstacles hindering the advancement of women, regardless of their ethnicity or social status. She concluded with recommendations on how stakeholders can foster an enabling environment that protects and promotes women in a democratic Burma.Nang Lao Liang Won (Tay Tay) is a feminist, activist, and educator.  She is a co-founder of the Shan Women’s Action Network (SWAN) and Migrant Assistance Programme (MAP). She has also worked in various capacities with the Women’s League of Burma (WLB) from the time it was founded, and she served as a Board Member for WLB until February 2013.  She has been an advocate for women’s human rights in Burma at many international forums, including the United Nations. She has been a long-time member of the Asia Pacific Forum on Women, Law & Development (APWLD), a regional feminist organization, for which she served as a Task force member of the Violence Against Women program from 2005 to 2009 and as a member of its Regional Council from 2006 to 2007. Currently, she is a member of the International Advisory Council of the Global Fund for Women and an advisory network member of the Urgent Action Fund for Women. She is the author of the handbook Guidelines on Strategies and Responses to the Needs of Burmese Migrant Women (1998) and is co-author of several reports, including Dignity Denied (2000) and In the Shadow of the Junta (2008).Brian Joseph is senior director for Asia and global programs at the National Endowment for Democracy.
#Strengthening Youth Participation in Nigeria##Strengthening Youth Participation in Nigeria with Abdulrazaq Alkali from National Endowment for Democracy on Vimeo.Sponsored by the International Forum for Democratic Studies at the National Endowment for DemocracyPowerpoint Presentation :: PDFEvent Highlights :: PDFReagan-Fascell Democracy Fellow, National Endowment for Democracywith comments bySenior Director, Africa Program, National Endowment for DemocracyWith nearly half Nigeria’s population between the ages of 18 and 35, young people represent one of the country’s most promising assets. Yet despite limited progress in strengthening youth engagement in recent years, young men and women continue to be left out of decision-making processes. The failure to draw this energetic and innovative sector into the work of democracy and development can have serious implications, as evidenced in Nigeria’s northeast, Middle Belt, and Niger Delta, where armed insurgents recruit alienated youth, offering them a strong sense of purpose and financial compensation. In his presentation, Abdulrazaq Alkali provided an overview of the state of youth activism in Nigeria today. He surveyed the steps being taken to:His presentation was followed by comments by Dave Peterson.  Mr. Abdulrazaq Alkali is executive director of the Youth Society for the Prevention of Infectious Disease and Social Vices (YOSPIS), a nongovernmental organization that promotes civic education and peace-building initiatives among youth in Nigeria’s Kano state. For over a decade, Mr. Alkali has directed projects that seek to enhance local government transparency and accountability through voter education, election monitoring, public oversight of local budgets, and the political mobilization of youth. During Nigeria’s 2011 general elections, he led a civic group that assisted voters in assessing political candidates’ platforms and in supporting a transparent election. As a paralegal, he has offered legal counsel to youth and other vulnerable groups. During his fellowship, Mr. Alkali is identifying ways of promoting the participation of young men and women in Nigeria’s democracy, with recommendations for civil society organizations, schools, neighborhood initiatives, political groups, and other institutions at the local and national level.Mr. Dave Peterson is senior director of the Africa Program at the National Endowment for Democracy. 
#Civil Society and the Quest for Democracy in Uganda: Threats and Opportunities##Civil Society and the Quest for Democracy in Uganda: Threats and Opportunities – Frank Rusa Nyakaana from National Endowment for Democracy on Vimeo.Powerpoint Presentation :: PDFEvent Highlights :: PDF– See more at: http://www.ned.org/events/using-technology-to-promote-good-governance-and-economic-transparency-in-west-africa#sthash.7RsW1S4A.dpufPowerpoint Presentation :: PDFEvent Highlights :: PDF– See more at: http://www.ned.org/events/using-technology-to-promote-good-governance-and-economic-transparency-in-west-africa#sthash.7RsW1S4A.dpufPowerpoint Presentation :: PDFEvent Highlights :: PDFWatch on Vimeo here.FeaturingFrank Rusa Nyakaana Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellow, National Endowment for Democracywith comments byEric Robinson Senior Program Officer for Africa, National Endowment for DemocracyFifty years after independence, genuine democracy continues to elude Uganda. After decades of brutal dictatorships and autocratic rule, current president Yoweri Museveni restored the world’s hope for peace and prosperity when he took power in January 1986 and embarked on a series of political and economic reforms.Today, twenty-six years later, Uganda once again faces a restrictive political environment, flawed electoral processes, and an apathetic citizenry. At the same time, over the past five years, a cross-section of civil society organizations has led the effort to mobilize greater civic participation in political accountability processes.In his presentation, Frank Rusa Nyakaana explored the opportunities and challenges faced by Ugandan civil society groups in their struggle for political accountability. Mr. Rusa offered his perspectives on the way forward, as well as recommendations for international development practitioners, civil society, and the Ugandan government.His presentation was followed by comments by Eric Robinson.Frank Rusa Nyakaana is a senior program officer at the Democratic Governance Facility (DGF), a basket fund initiative established by eight European partners (Austria, Denmark, the European Union Delegation, Ireland, the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden and the United Kingdom) to support democracy, human rights, peace-building, anti-corruption, and access to justice in Uganda. Prior to joining the DGF, Mr. Rusa worked as a manager at DGF’s predecessor, the Deepening Democracy Program (DDP), where he was in charge of election integrity and civic engagement programs. He also served as head of the Ugandan Electoral Commission’s legal department, where he presided over several landmark electoral processes, including the 2005 referendum on whether the country should adopt a multi-party political system. He resigned from the Commission in 2006, following a dispute with the Attorney General over the candidacy of a presidential rival. During his fellowship, Mr. Rusa is assessing the major challenges facing democracy in Uganda, with a particular focus on exploring the role of civil society in the quest for political and social accountability. Eric Robinson is senior program officer for Africa at the National Endowment for Democracy.
#The Role of Economics in Democratic Transitions: The Case of Tunisia##The Role of Economics in Democratic Transitions: The Case of Tunisia from National Endowment for Democracy on Vimeo.FeaturingDr. Mondher Ben Ayed President and CEO, TMIIntroductory remarks by Jeffrey Gedmin President and CEO, Legatum InstituteModerator Larry Diamond Director, Center on Democracy, Development, and the Rule of Law, Stanford University Co-founder and co-editor, Journal of Democracy, International Forum for Democratic Studies What are the elements that shape the outcome of a country’s transition from authoritarianism to democracy? All too often policy analysts focus on the political process, while neglecting the vital role of economic reform in determining democratic success or failure. Tunisia, the birthplace of the Arab Spring, has made significant strides towards developing democratic consensus; however, two years later, the country’s continued struggle with economic stagnation, high unemployment and lack of entrepreneurial opportunities poses serious challenges to its transition.Drawing upon his experience in business and civil society in Tunisia, Dr. Mondher Ben Ayed discussed why tackling these economic questions is essential for Tunisia’s future stability and success.The Tunisia case study is the second lecture in a joint series on “The Role of Economics in Democratic Transitions” organized by the Legatum Institute, the National Endowment for Democracy’s International Forum for Democratic Studies, Foreign Policy, and World Affairs that explores the link between economic reform and political transitions.Watch Foreign Policy Democracy Lab’s Christian Caryl continue the discussion in a post-event interview with Mondher Ben Ayed. ::VISITThe Dynamics for Transition in Tunisia and their Implications for the EconomyBy Mondher Ben AyedJune 2013Published by The Legatum Institute With the International Forum for Democratic Studies and World AffairsDr. Mondher Ben Ayed is president and chief operating officer of TMI, a Tunis based technology firm that has worked with Oracle, Sun Microsystems, and Acer to provide services around value-added solutions to telecommunications operators, banks, financial institutions, and government entities. He also has been active in various civil society positions since the mid-1990s, serving as president of the Tunisian-American Chamber of Commerce from 2007 to 2009 and as the private-sector coordinator on behalf of the Tunisian Business Association for the World Summit on the Information Society in 2005. He served from 2011 to 2012 as an advisor to the Prime Minister of Tunisia on economic issues and international relations.Larry Diamond is co-founder and co-editor of the Journal of Democracy and co-chair of the International Forum for Democratic Studies’ Research Council at the National Endowment for Democracy. He is also director of Stanford University’s Center on Democracy, Development, and the Rule of Law.Jeffrey Gedmin has been president and CEO of the Legatum Institute in London since 2011. From 2007 to 2011 he served as president and CEO of Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty. Before that he served for five years as Director of the Aspen Institute Berlin.
#Using Technology to Promote Good Governance and Economic Transparency in West Africa##Using Technology to Promote Good Governance and Economic Transparency in West Africa from National Endowment for Democracy on Vimeo.Event Highlights :: PDFfeaturingKwami Ahiabenu Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellow, National Endowment for Democracywith comments byLarry Diamond Founding Coeditor, Journal of Democracy and Co-chair, International Forum for Democratic Studies’ Research Council, National Endowment for Democracymoderated byChristopher Walker International Forum for Democratic StudiesIn recent years, a majority of the 15 ECOWAS (Economic Community of West African States) member countries have enjoyed expanded political freedoms and have passed a variety of reform measures to combat corruption, including the establishment of a regional anti-corruption institution. Despite this progress, the region still confronts instability, limited transparency, and weak democratic governance.In response to these ongoing challenges, countries across West Africa have begun to harness the power of information communication technologies (ICT), primarily as a tool to monitor elections. Beyond their application in electoral environments, however, the full potential of new technologies to enable transparency, fight corruption, and monitor public service delivery has yet to be fully realized.In his presentation, Kwami Ahiabenu provided an overview of how new digital technologies, including online platforms, mobile apps, SMS, and social media, are being used to promote democratic governance and economic transparency in ECOWAS member states. He assessed relevant projects, identified gaps in project deployment, and offered recommendations for the effective use of technology to strengthen democratic governance in West Africa.His presentation was followed by comments by Larry Diamond.Mr. Kwami Ahiabenu is founder and president of the International Institute for ICT Journalism, an Accra-based organization that promotes journalistic innovation and professionalism across Africa through the effective use of information communication technologies (ICT). Under Mr. Ahiabenu’s leadership, the Institute established the African Elections Project, which seeks to enhance the ability of mainstream media and citizen journalists to harness the power of ICT technologies to provide timely, relevant, and impartial election coverage and analysis. One of Ghana’s foremost experts on information technology and democracy, Mr. Ahiabenu has conducted numerous ICT trainings for African journalists and has written extensively on the political uses of information technology, including mobile phones, micro-blogging, community radio, and social media. He is also involved in accountability projects aimed at strengthening the media’s monitoring role over the extractive sector in Ghana and Uganda. During his fellowship, Mr. Ahiabenu is working to develop guidelines for enabling ordinary citizens to use information technology to track local government expenditure and ensure that public funds are being used for their intended purpose.Mr. Larry Diamond, the founding coeditor of the Journal of Democracy and the co-chair of the Research Council of the International Forum for Democratic Studies of the National Endowment for Democracy, is the director of Stanford University’s Center on Democracy, Development, and the Rule of Law.
#The Struggle for Independent Media and Freedom of Expression in Bahrain##A panel discussion featuring:Nada Alwadi Bahrain Press AssociationDelphine Hagland  Reporters Without Borders   Adel Iskandar  Georgetown UniversityModerated by:  David E. Lowe National Endowment for DemocracySince the March 2011 Arab Spring revolutions, protests have swept Bahrain, causing a significant decline in freedom of expression. This resulted in an increase of threats against media professionals, mass dismissals of journalists from the country, and rising levels of government control over the media.According to Reporters Without Borders, the government regularly obstructs the work of journalists and refuses to license independent television and radio channels, making it nearly impossible for independent media to function. The Bahrain Press Association’s 2012 Annual Report, Silence is a War Crime, looks at the many struggles for independent media and freedom of expression in Bahrain.Panelists discussed the overall media landscape in Bahrain, examined the government’s control of the media, and provided recommendations for improving the situation for independent media in Bahrain.Nada Alwadi is a Bahraini journalist, writer, and researcher. She has been working in print media since 2003 covering politics and human rights issues in Bahrain and elsewhere in the Middle East.She was a Humphrey/Fulbright fellow at the University of Maryland’s school of journalism. Alwadi covered the recent crackdown in Bahrain for several international media outlets including USA Today. In 2011, she was one of the recipients for the first James Lawson Award for Nonviolent Achievement by the International Center on Nonviolent Conflict.Alwadi co-founded the Bahraini Press Association with other prominent Bahraini journalists last year. This association focuses on defending local and international journalists who have been attacked or targeted by the Bahraini authorities. She holds a master’s degree in mass communication with an emphasis on women’s political empowerment in the media.  Delphine Halgand is the director of the Washington, DC, office for Reporters Without Borders (RSF in its French initials), where she runs the U.S. activities for the organization and advocates for journalists and bloggers and media rights worldwide. Acting as RSF’s spokesperson in the United States, Halgand regularly appears in American and foreign media and lectures at conferences at U.S. universities on press freedom violations. She previously served as press attaché in charge of outreach at the French Embassy to the United States. Since graduating from Sciences Po Paris with an MA degree in journalism, Halgand has worked as an economics correspondent for various French media, focusing mainly on international politics and macroeconomic issues.  Adel Iskandar is a scholar of Arab studies whose research focuses on media and communication. His work also deals with identity and politics, and he has lectured extensively on these topics at universities worldwide. His forthcoming research focuses on the role of new media in the Arab world and an international study of memes. Iskandar, a co-editor of Jadaliyya, teaches at the Center for Contemporary Arab Studies and the Communication, Culture and Technology program at Georgetown University in Washington, DC.  David E. Lowe is the vice president for government relations and public affairs at the National Endowment for Democracy. In this capacity he heads the office responsible for outreach to Capitol Hill, the Endowment’s government and media relations, and the operation of the World Movement for Democracy and the Center for International Media Assistance. Lowe joined the NED in 1989, having served previously as an official in the national office of the Anti-Defamation League and a member of the political science faculty at Drew University. At Drew, he served as director of the university’s off-campus programs in Washington and London. While in the latter role, he was a frequent speaker for the U.S. Information Agency in Europe and the United Kingdom. Lowe holds MA and PhD degrees from Johns Hopkins and a BA degree from Brandeis. He has been an adjunct faculty member at George Washington University’s Graduate School of Political Management and teaches a course for the Washington Semester program of Lewis and Clark College.
#U.S. Government Funding for Media Assistance: Trends and Strategies##Featuring:Peter Cary Author, U.S. Government Funding for Media Assistance: Trends and StrategiesMeg Gaydosik USAID*Jeanne Bourgault InternewsMark Whitehouse IREXModerated by:Jerry Hyman Center for Strategic and International Studies The realm of U.S. government assistance for media development is in flux. Based on funding statistics, U.S. government support for international media development is in decline. But does this mesh with realities on the ground?The process and variety of projects undertaken through U.S. government funding for media have reached remarkable complexity—a dramatic shift into digital technology, an uptick in media for behavior change, and regionally, two “bubbles” of media spending—one in the Middle East, and one in South and Central Asia.These issues are highlighted in the CIMA report U.S. Government Funding for Media: Trends and Strategies, by veteran journalist Peter Cary. The report focuses its research on two elements: an in-depth examination of proposals for media development projects put forward by USAID and the U.S. Department of State, and on annual regional and global funding totals for media freedom and freedom of information provided by the State Department.The discussion featured representatives from top U.S. media development organizations, who shared insight into the trends and the process of media development as discussed in CIMA’s report.Peter Cary is a consultant based in Fairfax, VA, who specializes in writing, editing, and investigative projects. He is a former managing editor, investigative editor, and Pentagon reporter at U.S. News & World Report magazine. Cary worked at several newspapers, including the Bergen Record and the Miami Herald, before joining U.S. News in 1987. He began his stint there as a national reporter, then became the magazine’s Pentagon correspondent, and covered the 1991 Gulf War. He co-wrote U.S. News’s book about that war, Triumph Without Victory, and then moved to the magazine’s investigative team, which he later ran as its editor. In his final years at U.S. News he was the managing editor for news and administration and helped launch several new business ventures. Cary has authored two other reports for CIMA, The Pentagon, Information Operations, and International Media Development, and An Explosion of News: The State of Media in Afghanistan.Meg Gaydosik* is the senior media development advisor in the Europe and Eurasia Bureau at the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID). In this capacity, she provides advice and assistance to USAID missions and policymakers on indigenous media development programming, freedom of expression, and access to information issues. Prior to joining USAID in 2006, Gaydosik worked for 11 years as an on-site media development consultant or project manager in nearly all of the Balkan and former Soviet Union countries. She has comprehensive skills in media management, operations and community relationship building, as well as internationally recognized expertise in the business, regulatory, and content production aspects of media development. In 2003, she was awarded a Knight International Press Fellowship and served in Hungary, Romania, and Slovakia. Gaydosik is a former commercial television station manager from Fairbanks, Alaska.Jeanne Bourgault is president and CEO of Internews, where she leads the strategic management of the organization and its programs around the world. Bourgault previously served as Internews’ chief operating officer; she joined Internews in 2001 as vice president for programs. Prior to Internews, Bourgault worked internationally in countries undergoing dramatic shifts in media and political landscapes. Bourgault worked in the former Yugoslavia, serving as a strategic advisor for media development programs in post-war Kosovo, as well as manager of community development projects in Serbia and Montenegro through the fall of Slobodan Milosevic. She served for six years with the U.S. Agency for International Development, including three years at the U.S. Embassy in Moscow. Bourgault speaks very rusty Russian and holds an MA in international studies and a master’s in public affairs from the University of Washington.Mark Whitehouse is vice president at the International Research & Exchanges Board (IREX). He has more than 15 years of experience in democratic and media development programming. Previously, as director of IREX’s media development division, he developed and oversaw media projects in Africa, Asia, Europe, and Eurasia. Prior to joining IREX, Whitehouse worked for the director of the Carter Center’s Commission on Radio and Television Policy; served as administrator of USSR programs at ACTR/ACCELS; and was a development associate at USAID. He has conducted research on ethnic politics at the Russian Academy of Sciences’ Institute of Ethnography in Moscow. He currently serves on the boards of directors of IREX Europe and the Broadcast Training Center (Bulgaria). Whitehouse received an MA in Political Science from Emory University, an MA in Russian and East European studies and a BA in government from Georgetown University.Jerry Hyman is senior adviser at the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS) and president of its Hills Program on Governance which has a network of affiliated programs in Beijing, Jakarta, Manila, Mexico City, Nairobi, and Seoul. Hyman served with USAID from 1990 to 2007, and from 2002 -2007 was director of its Office of Democracy and Governance in the Bureau for Democracy, Conflict, and Humanitarian Assistance. After his graduation from the University of Virginia Law School in 1985, he practiced law in Washington, DC, with the firm of Covington & Burling until joining USAID in 1990. Prior to 1982, Hyman taught courses on anthropology, social theory, modernization, economic development, American Indians, and Southeast Asia in the departments of sociology and anthropology at Smith College in Northampton, MA. He holds a BA in philosophy and a PhD in anthropology from the University of Chicago, and a JD from the University of Virginia.
#Presentation and Discussion of the USCIRF 2013 Annual Report##Presentation of the United States Committee on International Religious Freedom’s 2013 Report from National Endowment for Democracy on Vimeo.Presentation of the Annual Report:Katrina Lantos Swett Chair, U.S. Commission on International Religious FreedomPanelists:Ambassador Princeton Lyman Adjunct Senior Fellow, Council on Foreign Relations Board of Directors, National Endowment for DemocracyLouisa Greve VP for Asia, Middle East and Global Programs, National Endowment for DemocracyJohn Knaus Senior Program Officer for Asia, National Endowment for DemocracyModerator:Carl Gershman President, National Endowment for DemocracyOn May 8, 2013, the National Endowment for Democracy (NED) co-sponsored the presentation of the United States Commission on International Religious Freedom’s (USCIRF) 2013 Annual Report. USCIRF is an independent and bi-partisan U.S. government advisory body that monitors religious freedom worldwide.USCIRF Chair Katrina Lantos Swett , presented the findings of the report. A discussion on religious freedom and democracy followed featuring panelists Ambassador Princeton N. Lyman, adjunct senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations (and NED Board Member); Louisa Greve, NED Vice President for Asia, Middle East & North Africa, and Global Programs; and John Knaus, NED senior program officer for Asia. The event was moderated by NED President Carl Gershman.“Standing up for religious freedom globally is not simply a moral imperative,” Dr. Lantos Swett said, “it is not just the right thing to do but it is inextricably linked with advancing stability, peace, democracy and opportunity for people of all faiths, genders and persuasions globally.The 2013 Annual Report recommended that the Secretary of State re-designate the following eight nations as “countries of particular concern” or CPCs: Burma, China, Eritrea, Iran, North Korea, Saudi Arabia, Sudan and Uzbekistan. The report also found that seven other countries meet the CPC threshold and should also be designated: Egypt, Iraq, Nigeria, Pakistan Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Vietnam.“When it comes to violent religious extremism, it is clear that religious freedom abuses not only offend human rights, but pose a grave threat to the security and stability of countries,” Dr. Lantos Swett said. “The U.S. government must prioritize religious freedom not just as a core human right, but as a global security imperative and vital to a counter-extremism strategy.”“The issues of diversity are still the major political issues in Sudan, whether racial, geographic or religious,” said Lyman, former US Special Envoy to Sudan and South Sudan. “Can this government move to being a more inclusive and tolerant system? It is going to be a major challenge.”Greve emphasized the theme of “control, repression, and punishment” for all religions in China, as well as severe treatment for those who try to resist policy.In Burma, recent reforms made by the government are only “the initial steps in a long process of change,” Knaus said. The largest challenges to democracy in Burma will be religious and ethnic reconciliation, he added.All of the panelists expressed their appreciation for USCIRF’s 2013 Annual Report and, although cautious, were optimistic about the future for international religious freedom.“If we as a country reaffirm our commitment to religious freedom by making it a permanent and integral part of our foreign policy, it can be a game changer both for us and for the world,” Dr. Lantos Swett said.Link to USCIRF’s 2013 Annual ReportThe U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom (USCIRF), an independent federal advisory body created by the International Religious Freedom Act (IRFA) to monitor religious freedom abuses abroad, has released its 2013 Annual Report. The Report highlights the status of religious freedom globally and identifies those governments that are the most egregious violators.“The state of international religious freedom is increasingly dire due to the presence of forces that fuel instability,” said USCIRF Chair Katrina Lantos Swett. “These forces include the rise of violent religious extremism coupled with the actions and inactions of governments.”The National Endowment for Democracy (NED), through its support to hundreds of grassroots organizations around the world that are working to secure and protect basic rights and freedoms, is keenly aware of the challenges faced by minority populations and religious groups around the world.We welcome the opportunity to join with USCIRF to highlight the cause of religious freedom and hope you will join us for a presentation of the report findings by Dr. Lantos Swett, followed by a discussion featuring regional experts from the NED Board of Directors and staff.Dr. Katrina Lantos Swett is the Chair of the United States Commission on International Religious Freedom, which uses international standards to monitor religious freedom conditions abroad and recommend policies that will enhance freedom where it is imperiled. She also established the Lantos Foundation for Human Rights and Justice in 2008 and serves as its President and Chief Executive Officer. In addition to managing the Lantos Foundation, Dr. Lantos Swett teaches human rights and American foreign policy at Tufts University.Ambassador Princeton N. Lyman is an adjunct senior fellow for Africa policy studies at the Council on Foreign Relations (CFR) and an adjunct professor at Georgetown University. Ambassador Lyman’s career in government included assignments as deputy assistant secretary of state for Africa, U.S. ambassador to Nigeria, and U.S. Special Envoy for Sudan and South Sudan. He also served as the executive director of the Global Interdependence Initiative at the Aspen Institute.Louisa Greve is Vice President for Asia, Middle East & North Africa, and Global Programs at the National Endowment for Democracy. She has studied, worked, and travelled in Asia since 1980 and has testified before Congressional committees on human rights in China and democracy promotion in Asia. Ms. Greve also served as a member of the Board of Directors of Amnesty International USA from 1993 to 1998.John Knaus is the Senior Program Officer for Asia focusing on mainland Southeast Asia and North Korea since 1997. Mr. Knaus travels throughout Asia to assist and evaluate current NED grantees, consult with regional experts, and develop future programs. Prior to joining the Endowment, Mr. Knaus worked with Tibetan refugees in northern India. His writings on Asia have appeared in the Korea Times, the Nation (Bangkok) and the Journal of Democracy.Carl Gershman is President of the National Endowment for Democracy. In addition to presiding over the Endowment’s grants program in Africa, Asia, the Middle East, Eastern Europe, the former Soviet Union and Latin America, he has overseen the creation of the quarterly Journal of Democracy, International Forum for Democratic Studies, and the Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellows Program. Previously, Mr. Gershman was Senior Counselor to the United States Representative to the United Nations. He was also a Resident Scholar at Freedom House and Executive Director of Social Democrats, USA.
#NED to honor Vytautas Landsbergis with Democracy Service Medal#March 11, 2013#WASHINGTON, DC — On Wednesday, March 13, the National Endowment for Democracy (NED) will honor Lithuania’s former president Vytautas Landsbergis with the Democracy Service Medal. Previous recipients include His Holiness the Dalai Lama and former Czech president Vaclav Havel.  Twenty-three years ago today, on March 11, 1990, Vytautas Landsbergis, a founder and leader of the Sajudis democratic movement, was elected Chairman of the Supreme Council of the Republic of Lithuania. That same day he formally declared the re-establishment of the State of Lithuania and oversaw the drafting of Lithuania’s declaration of independence. After more than 40 years of occupation, Lithuania became the first of the Soviet republics to declare independence, serving as an inspiration for democracy movements across the region.Lithuania has since become a leading democratic nation, serving as president of the Community of Democracies and hosting the secretariat of the Parliamentary Forum for Democracy. In June, 2013, Lithuania will assume the Presidency of the European Union.“For his democratic vision, his courageous leadership, and his lifelong commitment to the wellbeing of his people, NED is proud to honor Vytautas Landsbergis with the Democracy Service Medal,” said Carl Gershman, president of the National Endowment for Democracy.In addition to NED’s new Chairman Martin Frost, the program will include remarks by Eric Rubin, US Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for European and Eurasian Affairs; NED Vice President Nadia Diuk; Lithuanian Ambassador Zygimantas Pavilionis; and and former congressman Bill Sarpalius (D-TX), a Lithuanian-American.The medal presentation will be preceded by a screening of the critically acclaimed documentary film, The Other Dream Team, which documents Lithuania’s struggle for independence and the inspiring story of its 1992 Olympic basketball team.This event is made possible with the support of The Kazickas Family Foundation, Chevron, Albinas Markevicius, Strategic Staffing Solutions, and the Embassy of Lithuania. All event proceeds will benefit the Parliamentary Forum for Democracy.
#RESEARCH COUNCIL MEMBER IVAN KRASTEV EXAMINES RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN MISTRUST, TRANSPARENCY, AND DEMOCRACY IN NEW TED BOOK#January 29, 2013#After presenting his research in Washington, DC, in November 2012 at an International Forum for Democratic Studies event titled “In Mistrust we Trust: Can Transparency Revive Democracy,” Ivan Krastev published the TED Book In Mistrust We Trust: Can Democracy Survive When We Don’t Trust Our Leaders? in January 2013. TED is a world-renowned non-profit devoted to “Ideas Worth Spreading” which disseminates the ideas of prominent thinkers through TED Talks, Books, Conferences, and other initiatives.Krastev serves as Chairman of the Board for the Center for Liberal Strategies (Bulgaria), a member institute of the International Forum’s Network of Democracy Research Institutes (NDRI). He is also a member of the Forum Research Council, the Journal of Democracy Editorial Board, and was the 2010 Lipset Lecture speaker.In Mistrust We Trust, Krastev considers the impact of the growing sense of mistrust that many citizens feel towards their democratically elected governments. Although a series of political, information, and thought “revolutions” over the past 50 years have made societies around the world more free and democratic, Krastev argues that our sense of collective purpose has fractured, inequality is on the rise, and citizens are now more skeptical than ever. Ultimately, this makes citizens feel ineffective in creating change.In response, many activists have turned to technology to promote transparency in an attempt to reassert control over political leaders and promote more open government. Krastev questions this assumption by noting “There is nothing more suspicious than the claim of absolute transparency.” Transparency-centered reform is not an alternative to mistrust, but is instead a major justification. In the end, Krastev asks whether we can enjoy the rights of a democratic society without enjoying real political choice or power.Purchase In Mistrust We Trust: Can Democracy Survive When We Don’t Trust Our Leaders? through TED Books and on Kindle, iBookstore, or Nook.Watch a discussion of Ivan Krastev’s ideas at TEDGlobal2012 in August 2012 and at our Forum event in November 2012.Learn more about the Forum Research Council.Read Ivan Krastev’s article on “Paradoxes of the New Authoritarianism” in the April 2011 edition of Forum’s Journal of Democracy.
#WHO KILLED CUBAN DISSIDENT OSWALDO PAYÁ?#July 24, 2012#With the death of Oswaldo Payá, a key leader of the Cuban democratic opposition, Cuba has suffered what the writer Yoani Sanchez called “a dramatic loss for its present and an irreplaceable loss for its future.” The circumstances surrounding Payá’s death Sunday have sparked controversy similar to that caused in October by the death of Laura Pollan , the leader of the much-acclaimed Ladies in White, just weeks after she was attacked at a protest march by a government supporter.The Cuban government said that Payá died in a traffic accident near the city of Bayamo when his car slammed into a tree, killing him and another passenger and injuring two others. But Payá’s daughter, Rosa Maria Payá, immediately challenged that version, saying that the family had received information from the survivors that their car was repeatedly rammed by another vehicle. “So we think it’s not an accident,” she said, according to CNN en Español. “They wanted to do harm and then ended up killing my father.”The family also said that Oswaldo Payá was targeted in a similar incident two weeks earlier in Havana. In retrospect, they now see that incident as a warning from the regime.Why would the Cuban government regard Payá as enough of a threat to want him killed? He was one of the most prominent opponents of the Cuban dictatorship, a Catholic activist who founded the Christian Liberation Movement in 1988. He is best known for the Varela Project, a petition drive he launched in 2002 that called for free elections and other rights. That angered the Cuban government, which responded by forcing through the National Assembly a constitutional amendment making the communist system in Cuba irrevocable. It followed that with the 2003 “Black Spring,” arresting 75 of the most prominent Cuban activists that March.But the government didn’t arrest Payá, because of the international renown that he had achieved. The European Parliament awarded him its Sakharov Prize for Freedom of Thought in 2002; that year he was also nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize by hundreds of parliamentarians in a campaign led by his friend Vaclav Havel, the Czech Republic president. Unlike Aung San Suu Kyi of Burma and Liu Xiaobo of China, for whom Havel also campaigned, Payá never received the Nobel Prize. But he was an activist in the same mold — a centrist within the opposition, committed to nonviolence and reconciliation. Payá opposed the U.S. embargo against Cuba, for which he was criticized by some opponents of the Castro regime.Although other activists had replaced Payá in recent years at the cutting edge of the Cuban democracy movement, he recently provoked the government on two issues of great sensitivity. In May, Payá broke a long silence when he sharply criticized an article in a lay Catholic publication that had defended the dialogue of the archbishop of Havana, Cardinal Jaime Ortega, with the regime and had attacked the cardinal’s critics. Payá accused the article’s authors of seeking to create “an artificial confrontation between the opposition and the church,” calling them “political commissars” who were asking “for a vote of confidence for Raul Castro’s government.”Payá, the country’s most prominent Catholic voice, crossed a red line in challenging the government’s relations with the church, which had become a pillar of the government’s strategy of survival. He also did so at a time when the regime, emboldened by the cardinal’s silence at the mass arrests during the pope’s visit to Cuba in March, was not about to tolerate criticism.Visiting Bayamo with foreigners — the two survivors of the crash were fellow Catholics from Spain and Sweden — crossed another red line. The city is the center of the cholera outbreak in the eastern part of Cuba, and for the regime, the disease is not just a medical problem but also an economic and political threat. The leakage of information about the outbreak threatens travel to Cuba and tourism, major sources of hard currency, which the regime desperately needs.The spread of the disease also challenges Cuba’s self-image as a medical superpower and could arouse anger in citizens who believe that sending Cuban doctors to Venezuela and other countries detracts from the care they receive at home. The fact that Bayamo has experienced labor unrest the past two years and was a rebel stronghold during Cuba’s war of independence against Spain and the uprising against Batista further arouses the regime’s anxiety.In the coming days, more facts are likely to emerge about Payá’s death. The testimony of the two survivors will be critical. As the United States and other democratic governments mourn Payá, it is essential that they — and world opinion — be alert to the dangers faced by democrats in Cuba. Without international solidarity, more martyrs are likely in the struggle for Cuban freedom.  Read the welcome and introductions by Carl Gershman.Apr 30, 2015Forum Launches New Website: "Resurgent...The Role of Media Development in Democratic Transitions:...One way or another, a transition in North Korea is...Shanthi Kalathil of the International Forum for Democratic...Mr. Kwami Ahiabenu is founder and president of the International Institute for...
#“Rethinking Zimbabwe” brings together civil society, policy makers at NED#July 20, 2012#All three political parties comprising Zimbabwe’s Government of National Unity (GNU), which is currently overseeing a constitutional reform process, were represented at a July 10 meeting at NED on “Rethinking Zimbabwe.” Co-sponsored by NED, the World Movement for Democracy, and the Solidarity Center, the meeting also included prominent members of Zimbabwean civil society, including NED grantees, as well as government officials from the U.S. and Zimbabwe.Though political discourse in Zimbabwe is still highly polarized and the constitutional reform process is not without its frustrations, according to NED Senior Director of Africa Programs Dave Peterson, there is reason to be optimistic. Since the GNU came to power, NED grantees have taken advantage of greater space to push for comprehensive constitutional reform that takes into account long-term political needs necessary to securing a durable transition to democracy.“Our partners have promoted human rights, monitored elections, and advocated for peace and tolerance, and while the NED is not in a position to prescribe the best path forward, choose winners, or predict the future for Zimbabwe, we have been persuaded by many of our Zimbabwean partners that the country is approaching a moment of democratic opportunity,” said Peterson.Zimbabwe may hold national elections next year following a constitutional referendum. The referendum is a provision of the Global Political Agreement (GPA), the 2008 power-sharing agreement reached between President Robert Mugabe and political opposition brokered by the Southern Africa Development Community (SADC).The NED meeting included discussion of the constitution-making process and the content of the new constitution, as well as the political environment in which the reforms are taking place.At a session on U.S.-Zimbabwe relations, Deputy Prime Minister Arthur Mutambara called on the U.S. to lift U.S. sanctions targeting President Robert Mugabe and high-ranking officials in his party, ZANU-PF, claiming they were detracting foreign investors and stifling economic development.U.S. Assistant Secretary of African Affairs Rueben Brigety II vigorously defended the sanctions, pointing to meager political progress in the country and assuring they could be lifted if Zimbabwe demonstrated a commitment to democracy and the rule of law, including free and fair presidential elections and passage of a constitution that significantly strengthens democratic institutions and protects human rights defenders and civil society activists.The comments followed a vigorous opening session in which panelists squared off on both the constitutional reform process and presidential elections, including whether elections should be held in the first place if the constitution fails to create institutions necessary to assure sustainable democratic development in the post-Mugabe era.Lovemore Madhuku, chairman of the National Constitutional Assembly, a NED grantee organization, criticized the GNU’s lack of transparency during the constitutional reform process, as well as its failure to effectively consult civil society organizations. The National Constitutional Assembly has been trying to create opportunities for popular participation in the reform process.According to Madhuku, neither ZANU-PF nor the two chief opposition parties in the GNU—the two wings of the Movement for Democratic Change linked to Prime Minister Morgan Tsvangirai (MDC-T) and Mutambara (MD-M)—have paid heed to calls from civil society for an end to Zimbabwe’s imperial presidency nor have they succeeded in generating a draft of the constitution that could be used to engage civil society organizations and ordinary citizens.Minister of State Jameson Timba, who represented MDC-T, commended the progress afforded by the GPA, heralding the constitutional process and national elections as an opportunity to move forward while also criticizing ongoing U.S. sanctions as an impediment to economic growth.Another panelist, Ambassador Chris Mutsvangwa (ZANU-PF), commissioner of the Zimbabwe Media Commission, expressed fears of a constitution that would weaken the state. This concern echoes resistance to security sector and other reforms that has been expressed by ZANU-PF.The afternoon panel, which focused on opportunities for democratic progress, addressed the intense polarization in Zimbabwean politics and the need for democratic institutions to create and manage economic progress. Godfrey Kanyenze, director of the Labor and Economic Development Research Institute, pointed to rampant corruption, stressing the need to build viable institutions and rule of law.These thoughts were shared by the other two panelists, Rukudzo Murapa, chairman of Great Zimbabwe Scenarios and chief editor of the Africa Democratic Leadership Academy, and Ibbo Mandaza, director of the Southern Africa Political Economy Trust, though they disagreed on the urgency to hold national elections. While Murapa stressed the importance of elections in order for the country to move forward and discussed the need to check executive power, Mandaza argued that elections could be delayed and that immediate focus should instead be paid to economic development.The NED meeting followed an earlier meeting last month in Harare that was organized by the World Movement for Democracy. That meeting drew an impressive array of Zimbabwean civil society organizations, including several NED grantees, as well as provided a forum for an exchange of views between the groups and Prime Minister Tsvangirai.“No one has a clear idea of what will happen in Zimbabwe over the coming months, but the better we understand the current political situation, the better chance we can respond in an appropriate and helpful way,” said Peterson. “Likewise, the more dialogue among Zimbabweans, the better chance good ideas will emerge and find a consensus.”  The September 2018 edition of the Forum newsletter features new content, event...June 12, 2014Democracy Ideas: Charles Mangongera,...Dr. Alex Magaisa assessed preparations for the approaching...Four African democracy activists from Democratic Republic...Zimbabwean women’s rights advocate Nyaradzo Mashayamombe discussed the state...
#New York Democracy Forum: Esther Dyson##Esther Dyson, longtime analyst of the IT and Internet worlds and author of the blog “Release 0.9,” addressed the topic, “A Virtualist Tours the World: The Internet and the Emergence of Democracy,” at the New York Democracy Forum.  
#Hungary’s Media Law: One Year Later##Youth Activism in Russia: Can a New Generation Make a Difference from National Endowment for Democracy on Vimeo.Featuring:Charles Gati, Johns Hopkins University Miklos Haraszti, Columbia University Ellen Hume, Central European University Balázs Weyer, Foundation for Quality JournalismModerated by: Nadia Diuk, National Endowment for DemocracyCIMA’s event marked the one-year anniversary of Hungary’s parliament’s passing a media law that drew widespread international criticism for undermining freedom of expression and increasing media controls. The government disputed these claims, but the International Partnership Mission to Hungary, which comprised freedom of expression and media development groups, found the regulations to be “broad, uncertain, and inconsistent with European standards of media freedom.”Specifically, democracy and media advocates object to the law’s scope of regulation, vague content rules, the Media Council’s wide-ranging powers and appointment structure, and changes to public service media, among other issues.Panelists examined the impact of the law one year after its passage and discussed the outlook for press freedom in Hungary in the wake of deteriorating economic conditions, media convergence, and other challenges.Charles Gati is a professorial lecturer and interim director of Russian and Eurasian Studies and a Foreign Policy Institute senior fellow at Johns Hopkins University’s School of Advanced International Studies. A professor emeritus at Union College, he has also taught at Columbia University and has served as a senior member of the policy planning staff at the U.S. Department of State. Gati has written extensively on European-Russian relations, including in Foreign Affairs. He is the author of Failed Illusions: Moscow, Washington, Budapest and the 1956 Hungarian Revolt and Hungary and the Soviet Bloc, both of which have received the Marshall Shulman Book Prize for outstanding book on the international relations of the former Soviet bloc. Gati’s next book, History Haunts, will be published in 2012, and he is the editor of a forthcoming anthology of original essays on Zbigniew Brzezinski.Miklos Haraszti is a Hungarian writer, editor, professor, and human rights promoter. He is currently co-teaching a course on global press freedom issues at Columbia University with Lee C. Bollinger, the university’s president. Convicted on “subversion” charges in the early 1970s, he went on to become a founder of Hungary’s democratic and free press movement. In 1989, he participated in the “Roundtable Negotiations” on the transition to free elections. As a member of the Hungarian parliament in the 1990s, Haraszti authored the country’s first laws on press freedom. From 2004 to 2010, he served as the OSCE representative on freedom of the media and in October-November 2010 he headed the OSCE assessment mission for the U.S. midterm elections. Haraszti’s books, including A Worker in a Worker’s State and The Velvet Prison, have been translated into many languages.Ellen Hume is an Annenberg fellow in civic media at Central European University (CEU) in Budapest, where she teaches and participates in research projects and workshops. Before arriving at CEU, Hume was the research director at the Center for Future Civic Media at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Previously, she founded the Center on Media and Society at the University of Massachusetts Boston and the New England Ethnic Newswire. She also served as executive director and senior fellow at Harvard University’s Shorenstein Center on the Press, Politics, and Public Policy, and as executive director of PBS’s Democracy Project, where she developed special news programs that encouraged citizen involvement in public affairs. Hume was a White House and political correspondent for the Wall Street Journal, national reporter for the Los Angeles Times, and regular commentator on PBS’s Washington Week in Review and CNN’s Reliable Sources programs. She has been a member of CIMA’s Advisory Council since 2007 and wrote a report for the center, Caught in the Middle: Central and Eastern European Journalism at a Crossroads, published in January 2011.Balázs Weyer is a Hungarian editor, journalist, and media ethics campaigner in Budapest. Weyer recently left his post as editor-in-chief at the Hungarian news portal Origo.hu, which he founded in 1998. During that time, he also served as a member of an expert focus group for the European Commission preparing the audiovisual directive in 2006 and a board member of the self-regulating industry organization Hungarian Association of Content Providers between 2003 and 2010. In the 1990s, he was the managing editor of RTL’s Klub, a nationally broadcast news program, while also serving as the president of the European Association of Community Broadcasters and president of the board for Tilos Radio. Prior to that, he was the editor of the politics section of the magazine Magyar Narancs. A board member of the Foundation for Quality Journalism, Weyer has authored and co-authored handbooks on investigative reporting and media ethics for reporters, radio broadcasters, and economic journalists.Nadia Diuk serves as vice president of programs for Europe and Eurasia, Africa, and Latin America and the Caribbean at the National Endowment for Democracy. For more than 20 years prior to her appointment as vice president, she supervised NED programs and strategies in what was then known as Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union, and, later, as Eurasia. Before joining the NED she taught Soviet politics and Russian history at Oxford University; was a research associate at the Society for Central Asian Studies in England; and was editor-in-chief of the London-based Soviet Nationality Survey. Diuk is a member of the Council on Foreign Relations. She earned her master’s degree in Russian and East European studies and her doctorate in modern history from St. Antony’s College at the University of Oxford.  
#Media in Transition: Coverage of the 2011 Election in Kyrgyzstan and Beyond##Media in Transition: Coverage of the 2011 Election in Kyrgyzstan and Beyond from CIMA on Vimeo. More than 40 people attended CIMA/NED’s discussion on December 6, 2011, that focused on the media’s coverage of the recent presidential election in Kyrgyzstan, including prospects for press freedom. In 2010, Roza Otunbayeva’s provisional government came to power after political instability and further tightening of civil liberties by then-President Kurmanbek Bakiyev fueled protests leading to his ouster. Since then, Otunbayeva has slowly opened the space for media, allowing Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty to broadcast again on state radio, reopening suspended newspapers, and converting the state television outlet into a public service broadcaster with a supervisory board comprising independent journalists and representatives of civil society.The discussion addressed the questions: has the political landscape stabilized and have conditions for press freedom improved? Additional questions included: Was coverage of the October election better or worse compared with coverage of the parliamentary elections in 2010? Was there a difference in reporting among broadcast, print, and online media outlets?Panelists examined the challenges to independent media leading up to the October election and the outlook for press freedom in the wake of a decade of political instability and polarization.Alisher Khamidov is a lecturer at the Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced International Studies (SAIS) at Johns Hopkins University. He began his career as director of the Osh Media Resource Center, a non-profit, independent media association in southern Kyrgyzstan, and has worked for several non-governmental organizations and think tanks, including the Central Asian Media Support Project, the University of Notre Dame’s Sanctions and Security Project, and the Foreign Policy Studies Program at the Brookings Institution. Khamidov has written about religious and ethnic conflict in the Ferghana Valley and political developments in Kyrgyzstan and Central Asia and is a frequent contributor to Eurasianet and Transitions Online. He earned his doctorate in Russian and Eurasian studies from SAIS, a master’s degree in international peace studies from the University of Notre Dame, and a bachelor’s degree from Osh State University in Kyrgyzstan.Erica Marat is an adjunct professor at American University and a contributor to Voice of America’s Russian service. Previously, she was a research fellow at the Central Asia-Caucasus Institute and Silk Road Studies Program, which is affiliated with the Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced International Studies of Johns Hopkins University. She is an expert on security issues in Central Asia, with a focus on military, national, and regional defense, as well as state-crime relations in Eurasia. Marat has published widely, both in peer review journals and policy-oriented forums. She earned her bachelor’s degree in sociology from the American University of Central Asia, a master’s degree in political sociology from the Central European University in Hungary, and a doctorate in political science from the University of Bremen in Germany. She is a regular contributor to the Central Asia–Caucasus Analyst and to the Eurasia Daily Monitor. Her most recent book is The Military and the State in Central Asia: From Red Army to Independence.Mariya Rasner has been Internews Network’s country director in Kyrgyzstan for the past four years, where she oversees several ongoing projects, including television content production and distribution, journalism training, and legal advocacy on behalf of the media. In 2010, in response to political and interethnic violence in southern Kyrgyzstan, she helped launch emergency press centers in Osh and Jalalabad along with two new TV programs–a regional news production and a youth show. Rasner, a native of Ukraine, earned a master’s degree in foreign affairs from the Fletcher School at Tufts University. She has worked as a journalist for Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty and Radio Echo of Moscow and has contributed to National Public Radio, WomensENews and the Moscow Times.Miriam Lanskoy is director for Russia and Eurasia at the National Endowment for Democracy. In 2003, she earned her doctorate in international affairs from Boston University following her dissertation on the Russian presidency, Chechen wars, and social and political problems of the North Caucasus. She has fourteen years of experience in political analysis and democracy promotion in post-Soviet Eurasia, and in 2005 she became a term member of the Council on Foreign Relations. She has published articles in the Journal of Democracy, SAIS Review, and the Fletcher Forum of World Affairs. She has also spoken on numerous panels and conferences about political developments in Russia and Eurasia, testified before Congress, and appeared on the PBS Newshour. In 2010, Lanskoy coauthored The Chechen Struggle: Independence Won and Lost with former Chechen Foreign Minister Ilyas Akhmadov.   
#Youth Activism in Russia: Can a New Generation Make a Difference##Youth Activism in Russia: Can a New Generation Make a Difference from National Endowment for Democracy on Vimeo.Download Presentation ::PDFfeaturingDr. Tamirlan Kurbanov, Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellowwith comments byDr. Nadia Diuk, National Endowment for DemocracyIn the twenty years since the collapse of the Soviet Union, Russia has embarked on a difficult path toward democracy. Since then, the only consensus of both the Russian domestic community and outside observers is that the journey has been tumultuous. Yet, the political engagement of young people in Russia has grown markedly over the last ten years, even as it has varied dramatically from region to region. Can the relative success of youth-led groups in Russia’s northwestern region be replicated in the country’s southern outposts in spite of their different political, economic, and social environments? How can lessons learned from youth-led groups be applied cross-regionally?Dr. Tamirlan Kurbanov addressed these questions and offered insights into the dynamics of young people’s involvement, including their motivations, challenges, and impact on the Russian political system. Dr. Kurbanov explained the mindsets and attitudes of Russia’s new generation and offer recommendations for strengthening the role of youth in Russia’s democratic journey. Dr. Nadia Diuk provided comments.Dr. Tamirlan Kurbanov most recently served as a program officer at the Moscow office of the National Democratic Institute for International Affairs, where he was involved in developing and expanding the capacities of political and civic organizations; promoting citizen participation in public life, youth engagement in particular; and encouraging constructive dialogue among representatives of the Russian government, civil society, and the small business sector. Prior to joining NDI, he served as a research scholar at the Russian Academy of Sciences. He holds a Ph.D. in international law from the Diplomatic Academy of the Russian Foreign Ministry and an L.L.M. from the University of Minnesota. During his fellowship, Dr. Kurbanov explored effective methods of promoting civic engagement among youth, including the use of both traditional and digital communications to influence decision makers and effect democratic change. He documented his findings in the form of a training manual on youth engagement in public life.Dr. Nadia Diuk is the vice president of programs for Africa, Central Europe and Eurasia, and Latin America and the Caribbean at the National Endowment for Democracy.  
#A Roundtable Discussion with Ales Michalevich##The National Endowment for Democracy, the Center for European Policy Analysis, and the Atlantic Council sponsored this event:FeaturingAles Michalevich, pro-democracy activist and former Belarusian presidential candidateOpening remarks were given by: Peter Doran, Center for European Policy Analysis Rodger Potocki, National Endowment for DemocracyCEPA, the National Endowment for Democracy and the Atlantic Council co-hosted a lunch briefing with Ales Michalevich, pro-democracy activist and former Belarusian presidential candidate, to discuss the current political environment in his country and next steps in the Western policy approach toward Minsk.A long-time civic and political activist, Ales Michalevich was one of nine opposition candidates to run in Belarus’ presidential election of December 19, 2010. As tens of thousands of Belarusians took to the streets to protest the flawed election, the regime in “Europe’s last dictatorship” violently suppressed the demonstration and arrested over 600 participants, including Mr. Michalevich and six other presidential candidates. Released after two months of imprisonment, he denounced the conditions of his detention and went public about the acts of torture and abuse which he and others had suffered. In danger of being arrested again, Mr. Michalevich left Belarus and received political asylum in the Czech Republic. Since his release, he has worked to shed light on the human rights abuses that have continued during the unprecedented crackdown since the December election and campaigned for the release of all political prisoners in Belarus. Mr. Michalevich’s visit to Washington DC is part of a larger trip to receive Rights and Democracy’s 20th John Humphrey Award in Ottawa.  
#From Ujamaa to Demokrasia: Reflecting on 50 Years of Independence in Tanzania and the Way Forward##From Ujamaa to Demokrasia: Reflecting on 50 Years of Independence in Tanzania and the Way Forward from National Endowment for Democracy on Vimeo. Download Presentation ::PDFfeaturingDr. Ibrahim Lipumba, Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellowwith comments byJoel D. Barkan, Senior Associate, Africa Program at the Center for Strategic and International StudiesTanzania, which celebrated its 50th anniversary of independence on December 9, is often considered an African success story due to its political stability, social cohesion, and lack of violent civil strife or military coups. Long before lifetime presidencies were out of fashion, President Julius Nyerere (1962–1985) was among the first African leaders to step down voluntarily from office. In 1992, Tanzania instituted a multiparty system and held its fourth election in 2010. It also liberalized its economy, and has registered impressive growth in the past decade.Despite these significant achievements, however, there remain critical challenges to be addressed before the country can claim the mantle of success. A majority of Tanzanians live in poverty and have yet to enjoy an equitable share of the country’s wealth. The political system is dominated by a hegemonic ruling party, corruption is rife, elections are free but not fair, and the state suffers from weak capacity. Indeed, while unique in some contexts, Tanzania exhibits many of the qualities of an underdeveloped and semi-democratic state.In his presentation, Dr. Ibrahim Lipumba reflected on Tanzania’s achievements and the challenges ahead as we marked the 50th anniversary of Tanzanian independence. Dr. Joel D. Barkan provided comments.Since 1999, Dr. Ibrahim Lipumba has served as national chairman of the Civic United Front (CUF), a liberal political party in Tanzania with strong support in Zanzibar. Dr. Lipumba is from mainland Tanzania and has run for president on the CUF ticket four times (1995, 2000, 2005, and 2010). From 2009–2010, he led the CUF in negotiations with the ruling party in order to resolve the political crisis in Zanzibar through a power-sharing agreement. Before he entered party politics, Dr. Lipumba was a professor of economics at the University of Dar es Salaam (1983–1996) and a Fulbright Visiting Professor at the Center for Development Economics at Williams College (1993–1995). He also served as Senior Research Fellow at the World Institute for Development Economics Research in Helsinki (1996–1998). During his fellowship, Dr. Lipumba is examining the structure of governance institutions in developing countries with functioning democracies and rapid economic growth, in order to draw lessons for building accountable institutions that will foster sustainable and equitable development in Tanzania.Dr. Joel D. Barkan is professor emeritus of political science at the University of Iowa and senior associate at the Center for Strategic and International Studies.  
#Independent Media in East Africa: Democratic Pillar in Peril?##Independent Media in East Africa: Democratic Pillar in Peril? from CIMA on Vimeo.Featuring:Tamerat Feyisa, Addisnegeronline.com John A. “Al” Hosinski, Solidarity Center Joan Mower, Voice of America Omar Faruk Osman, Federation of African JournalistsRecently passed anti-terrorism and information laws allow governments to harass and imprison journalists with impunity. Under these new laws, six journalists have been arrested in Ethiopia since June 2011, and Somali journalists are facing tremendous threats covering conflict and famine in their country.How do local media react when their fellow journalists come under attack? How can an independent press play its crucial role as a pillar of democracy and overcome challenges in places such as Sudan and South Sudan, Somalia, Uganda, Rwanda, and Kenya? The discussion examined the development of unions and media associations as well as the international donor community’s role in supporting independent media in East Africa.John A. “Al” Hosinski is a program officer with the American Center for International Labor Solidarity/AFL-CIO (Solidarity Center) in the Africa Department. He is the principal officer for program development and implementation of the Solidarity Center’s work with unions in Guinea, Liberia, Lesotho, Mozambique, South Africa, and Swaziland, and with the East Africa Journalists Association. His input on program development themes includes extractive industries, informal work, new media advocacy, and the rights of media workers. A former freelance writer and in-house writer/editor at the Solidarity Center, he is the author of a number of articles on workers’ rights topics, including two of the Solidarity Center’s Degradation of Work reports, investigating workers’ rights abuses in the shrimp industries of Thailand and Bangladesh and analyzing workers’ rights in Nigeria’s oil industry.Tamerat Feyisa is an Ethiopian journalist and political activist. He began his career in journalism at the age of 20 at the English-language weekly, Capital. He then worked as a producer at an International Evangelical Radio outlet. Feyisa joined a Mennonite theological college in Ethiopia in 2003, where he started participating in meetings of the Ethiopian Democratic League. In 2005 he was elected to the city council of Addis Ababa, which was disbanded after the turmoil following the election. From 2005 to 2007, Feyisa worked as an activist to free political prisoners who were jailed during the election crisis. In 2007 he and six friends started the newspaper Addis Neger. Upon learning in 2009 that the government had decided to shut down the newspaper and charge the editors under a new terrorism law, Feyisa and his friends fled the country. Currently they are operating Addis Neger from an online platform, Addisnegeronline.com, and Feyisa is the editor of the publication’s Facebook page.Joan Mower is the head of development at the Voice of America (VOA), where she oversees special broadcasting and training projects around the world. In 2007-2008, she worked at the U.S. Department of State, handling public affairs on Sudan and Darfur. She has done extensive media training and public speaking in the United States and abroad. Previously, she was the acting director of public relations at VOA and the communications coordinator at the Broadcasting Board of Governors (BBG). Mower joined the BBG after serving as the director of international programs for Africa and Latin America at the Freedom Forum/Newseum. At the foundation, she promoted press freedom through public and private sector engagement with journalists. She is also a former State Department foreign service officer. Mower began her career as a journalist with United Press International. In Washington, she worked for the Associated Press, covering the State Department, Congress, and the White House. She graduated from the University of California, Berkeley, with a degree in political science, and she holds a master’s degree in African studies from Johns Hopkins’ School of Advanced International Studies.Omar Faruk Osman is a press freedom activist and representative of journalists’ unions across eastern Africa, committed to safeguarding and representing journalists in areas often ignored by the mainstream media. He started practicing journalism in 1994 as a radio journalist in Mogadishu. In 2002, he was elected the secretary general of the then Somali Journalists’ Network (SOJON), which defended press freedom and media professionals’ rights in the war-ravaged country. He also transformed SOJON into a trade union movement in 2005, which became the National Union of Somali Journalists (NUSOJ) and was supported by the International Federation of Journalists (IFJ). In 2007, he was elected to the international executive committee of the IFJ and became secretary general of the Eastern Africa Journalists’ Association. He has been president of the Federation of African Journalists since 2008.The Center for International Media Assistance, an initiative of the National Endowment for Democracy, brings together a broad range of media experts with the goal of strengthening the support for and improving the effectiveness of media assistance programs by providing information, building networks, and conducting research on the indispensable role independent media play in creating sustainable democracies around the world.The Solidarity Center is a non-profit organization that assists workers around the world who are struggling to build democratic and independent trade unions. The Center works with unions and community groups worldwide to achieve equitable, sustainable, democratic development and to help men and women everywhere stand up for their rights and improve their living and working standards.  
#Matching the Market and Model: The Business of Independent News Media##FeaturingModerated byOn November 17, 2011, CIMA’s panel discussion explored how the lack of management skills and inexperience in developing effective business models pose a significant risk to the sustainability of independent news media. While media in many countries have shaken off political controls of the past and are operating with unprecedented freedom, media managers and editors in emerging democracies often find they are unable to take full advantage of this new space because they lack basic skills in business management. Mounting economic pressures and the move toward mobile distribution of news with very different advertising structures make it even more difficult to sustain hard-won advances on the editorial front.Panelists examined these challenges and discussed two new reports: Financially Viable Media in Emerging and Developing Markets, published by the World Association of Newspapers and News Publishers in partnership with the Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency, and Matching the Market and the Model: The Business of Independent News Media, by the Center for International Media Assistance. Both studies cite the need for a shift in media assistance that will help media managers build a more solid and sustainable economic foundation to support the creation of quality content on multiple platforms.The speakers outlined a variety of business models for media in several countries around the world and examined what lessons can be learned from those experiences.Michelle Foster is an international media management and marketing consultant who works with companies to develop strategic plans that lead to improved business performance. She has worked with news media organizations throughout the United States as well as in China, Hong Kong, Vietnam, Cambodia, Laos, Burma, and East Timor. A former Knight international journalism fellow in Southeast Asia, she also serves as a regional advisor on Asia and the Pacific region to that program. From 1991 until 2003, Foster was the senior market development executive for Gannett Co., Inc.’s Newspaper Division. As such, she oversaw marketing efforts for 97 daily newspapers, several national brands, and niche product lines. She led efforts in branding, consumer and business marketing, database development, market intelligence, and the migration of brands from traditional to online media. Foster has won numerous national and regional advertising awards, including repeated recognition for excellence in innovation and for marketing leadership at Gannett.Caroline H. Little is president/CEO of the Newspaper Association of America. She was chief executive officer of Guardian News and Media, North America, until October 2010. Prior to that, Little held several positions with Washingtonpost. Newsweek Interactive, including as general counsel, chief operating officer, and chief executive officer. Little graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Wesleyan University with a degree in English after attending Grinnell College for two years. She earned a juris doctorate, with honors, from New York University’s School of Law in 1986 and clerked with Waller, Lansden, Dortch, & Davis; Teitelbaum & Hiller; Crowell & Moring; and the U.S. Attorney’s Office Eastern District of New York. Little served as a member of the District of Columbia Bar Board of Governors. She serves on the DC Advisory Board for the Posse Foundation and the News Literacy Foundation, and she is a member of CIMA’s Advisory Council.Harlan Mandel is the chief executive officer for the Media Development Loan Fund (MDLF), where he was the deputy managing director from 1998 until 2011. He has more than 20 years’ experience working in emerging markets as an investment manager and attorney, managing debt and equity investments in more than 50 news outlets on five continents. Before joining MDLF, Mandel served from 1996 to 1998 as deputy general counsel of the Open Society Institute/Soros Foundations Network. Prior to that, he practiced law in the New York and Los Angeles offices of Morrison & Foerster, specializing in international litigation, intellectual property, and new media law. He earned his juris doctorate from Columbia University’s School of Law in 1989 and holds a bachelor’s degree in international relations and Asian studies from the University of Pennsylvania.Anne Nelson is an adjunct associate professor at Columbia University’s School of International and Public Affairs. She specializes in international media development and has worked extensively as an analyst, evaluator, and practitioner in the field. Nelson consults for many leading U.S. foundations, including the Open Society Foundations, the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, the Carnegie Foundation, and the John S. and James L. Knight Foundation. Nelson was the executive director of the Committee to Protect Journalists and also served as the director of the international program at Columbia University’s School of Journalism. Her time as a war correspondent in Latin America and a reporter in Eastern Europe and Asia earned her six awards, including the Livingston Award for international reporting. Nelson is a widely-produced playwright and screenwriter. Her 2001 play, The Guys, deals with the post-9/11 experience, and became a feature film in 2002 starring Sigourney Weaver and Anthony LaPaglia, for which she received the National Board of Review award for Excellence in Filmmaking. Nelson is a graduate of Yale University, a member of the Council on Foreign Relations, and the recipient of a 2005 Guggenheim Fellowship for work on media and Nazi Germany.John D. Sullivan is the executive director of the Center for International Private Enterprise (CIPE), a core institute of the National Endowment for Democracy (NED) and an affiliate of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. As associate director of the Democracy Program, Sullivan helped to establish both CIPE and the NED in 1983. After serving as CIPE program director, he became executive director in 1991. Sullivan began his career in Los Angeles’ inner city neighborhoods, helping to develop minority business programs with the Institute for Economic Research and the Office of Minority Business Enterprise. In 1976, he joined President Ford’s election committee in the department dealing with campaign strategy, polling, and market research. Sullivan joined the public affairs department of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce in 1977 as a specialist in business and economic education. He earned a doctorate in political science from the University of Pittsburgh and is the author of numerous publications on the transition to democracy, corporate governance, and market-oriented democratic development. Sullivan is an adjunct faculty member at George Mason University’s Graduate School of Public Affairs.The Center for International Media Assistance, an initiative of the National Endowment for Democracy, brings together a broad range of media experts with the goal of strengthening the support for and improving the effectiveness of media assistance programs by providing information, building networks, and conducting research on the indispensable role independent media play in creating sustainable democracies around the world.WAN-IFRA, based in Paris, France, and Darmstadt, Germany, with subsidiaries in Singapore, India, Spain, and Sweden, is the global organization of the world’s newspapers and news publishers. It represents more than 18,000 publications, 15,000 online sites, and 3,000 companies in over 120 countries. Its core mission is to defend and promote press freedom, quality journalism, editorial integrity, and the development of prosperous media businesses. Learn more about WAN-IFRA at http://www.wan-ifra.org or through the WAN-IFRA Magazine at http://www.wan-ifra.org/magazine.  Download the full report:Matching the Market and the Model-The Business of Independent News Media – 08-22-11 
#Arab Revolutions is the topic of October 26, 2011 Lipset Lecture at Canadian Embassy#October 25, 2011#Dr. Abdou Filali-Ansary of Aga Khan University is eighth Lipset Lecturer on Democracy in the World at 6 p.m. on Wednesday, October 26 at the Embassy of Canada in Washington, DC.DATE: October 25, 2011CONTACT: Jane Riley Jacobsen (202) 378-9700 or jane@ned.orgWASHINGTON, DC — The Arab Revolutions: Democracy and Historical Consciousness is the topic of Dr. Abdou Filali-Ansary, who will deliver the 8th annual Seymour Martin Lipset Lecture.Sponsored jointly by the National Endowment for Democracy (NED) and the University of Toronto’s Munk School for Global Affairs, the annual lecture is an important new forum for discourse on democracy and its progress worldwide.Abdou Filali-Ansary is currently a professor at the Institute for the Study of Muslim Civilisations of the Aga Khan University (London), an institution which he served as Founding Director from 2002 to 2009. Previously he had been Founding Director of the King Abdul-Aziz Foundation for Islamic Studies and Human Sciences in Casablanca, Morocco, (1984–2001) and secretary-general of Mohammed V University in Rabat (1980–1984), where he also taught modern philosophy.Dr. Filali-Ansary has written widely on Islam, modernity, democratization, and civil society in the Muslim world, especially on intellectual trends in contemporary Muslim contexts. His books include Is Islam Hostile to Secularism?; Reforming Islam: An Introduction to Contemporary Debates; and a translation from the original Arabic into French of Ali Abdel-Raziq’s landmark book Islam and the Foundations of Political Power. In 1993 he co-founded the bilingual Arabic- French journal Prologues: revue maghrébine du livre and served as its editor until 2005. He is a longtime member of the Editorial Board of the Journal of Democracy and a frequent contributor to its pages.The Lipset Lecture is named for one of the great democratic scholars and public intellectuals of the twentieth century. Seymour Martin Lipset’s scholarship on such themes as the conditions for democracy, political parties, voting behavior, extremist movements, ideologies, and public opinion constitutes one of the most prolific, insightful, and widely read bodies of workon democracy ever produced by a single author.This event is open to the media. Interested journalists should register with Jane Riley Jacobsen at 202-378-9700 or jane@ned.org.
#Developing Independent Media as an Institution of Accountable Governance: A How-to Guide##Developing Independent Media as an Institution of Accountable Governance: A How-to Guide from CIMA on Vimeo.Featuring:Shanthi Kalathil Author, Developing Independent Media as an Institution of Accountable Governance: A How-To GuideSherry Ricchiardi American Journalism ReviewKevin Sturr USAID* Independent media play a crucial role in underpinning good governance, and many development organizations are increasingly interested in supporting media programs. While stakeholders use the media to communicate development messages, they are sometimes less knowledgeable about how to strengthen the media sector itself as an instrument of accountability. Moreover, governance advisors are often unfamiliar with how best to provide media assistance within various political and economic environments and within a project’s budget. As a result, this fundamental piece of the governance reform agenda is sometimes neglected.The World Bank’s Communication for Governance and Accountability Program addresses this gap with Developing Independent Media as an Institution of Accountable Governance: A How-To Guide. The toolkit provides advice for donors, foundations, and other stakeholders who are interested in media development, but who need help assessing relevant institutions and actors. It helps users understand what drives or blocks reform in the media sector and identify the most promising entry points for an independent media development program. The toolkit is the result of a multi-year process of consultations with experts from international organizations, bilateral donors, and media development organizations, including the Center for International Media Assistance.Shanthi Kalathil is an international development consultant and author, who focuses on the intersection between development, democracy, and international security, with an emphasis on issues of voice and accountability. Previously a senior democracy fellow and senior media advisor at the U.S. Agency for International Development, she is a regular consultant for the Communication for Governance and Accountability Program at the World Bank, and consults for a variety of other organizations on development and security issues. Kalathil is co-author of Open Networks, Closed Regimes: The Impact of the Internet on Authoritarian Rule, which examines the role of the Internet in promoting political transition in eight authoritarian and semi-authoritarian regimes. She has spent the past decade advising the U.S. government, international organizations, and civil society groups on the policy and practical aspects of support for traditional and new media as a function of good governance. Formerly based as a staff reporter in Hong Kong for the Wall Street Journal Asia, Kalathil holds degrees from UC Berkeley and the London School of Economics and Political Science.Sherry Ricchiardi is a senior contributing writer for American Journalism Review (AJR), specializing in international issues, and a professor at the Indiana University School of Journalism. Ricchiardi has trained journalists in developing countries throughout the world, including Pakistan, Yemen, and China. She is on the advisory committee of the Dart Center for Journalism and Trauma at Columbia University. Ricchiardi has been a Fulbright scholar at Zagreb University in Croatia and serves on the peer review committee for the Fulbright Specialist Program. Before going into media development, she spent 14 years at the Des Moines Register as an investigative reporter and Sunday magazine writer. She later became city editor for the Columbia Missourian, a newspaper produced at the University of Missouri School of Journalism, her alma mater. During the war in the Balkans, Ricchiardi’s stories from the front lines appeared in several American publications, including the Miami Herald, St. Louis Post-Dispatch, and AJR. She is the author of CIMA’s March 2011 report Iraq’s News Media After Saddam: Liberation, Repression, and Future Prospects. In 2003 and 2009, she won the National Press Club’s top award for press criticism.Kevin Sturr is a foreign service officer with the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID). Currently in the Governance Division of the Democracy and Governance Office, he will be the interim chief for the human rights team in the Democracy, Governance, and Human Rights Center, which USAID will open soon under its Bureau of Democracy, Conflict, and Humanitarian Assistance. Sturr has served at USAID missions in Senegal, Zimbabwe, and Bangladesh. He was also a field representative for USAID’s Famine Early Warning System in Nouakchott, Mauritania, and in the Sahel Regional Office in Bamako from 1993 to 2000. He earned his bachelor’s degree in political science from Columbia University and studied public interest law at the City University of New York, as well as international health at Tulane University. Sturr was a Peace Corps volunteer in Mali from 1987 to 1990.*Note: Kevin Sturr’s comments will reflect his own opinions and experiences. They will not represent the opinions or policies of USAID.The Center for International Media Assistance, an initiative of the National Endowment for Democracy, brings together a broad range of media experts with the goal of strengthening the support for and improving the effectiveness of media assistance programs by providing information, building networks, and conducting research on the indispensable role independent media play in creating sustainable democracies around the world.  
#2011 DEMOCRACY SERVICE MEDAL AWARDED TO Jean Bethke Elshtain##On Oct. 13, 2011, NED President Carl Gershman presented the Democracy Service Medal to long-time Board member Jean Bethke Elshtain. Dr. Francis Fukuyama, another long-time Board member and Medal recipient, and Martin Paloush, former Ambassador of the Czech Republic to the US and the United Nations, also presented tributes. The Medal, established to recognize significant contributions to the progress of democracy around the world, was a fitting homage to Elshtain’s energetic involvement in nine years of membership on the NED Board of Directors.Elshtain served as the NED Board specialist for South Asia, which actively involved her in the process of reviewing grant proposals, and then presenting and explaining these at each Board meeting. As Gershman noted,  “…her favorite project was the quaintly named Pakistan Fisherfolk Forum, a Karachi-based grassroots social movement with 60,000 (dues paying) members that works to protect the rights of Pakistan’s large inland and coastal fisherfolk community from abuse by government, landowners, and other powerful interests.   It had all the qualities that Jean likes: real people, tied to their local communities, working together to solve real problems, such as getting the Pakistani authorities to release jailed Indian fisherfolk, or to get a paramilitary border force to vacate fishing grounds it had illegally occupied.”Elshtain, who is on the faculty at the University of Chicago Divinity School, has also written and lectured extensively on the topic of religion and democracy. In her 1995 book, Democracy on Trial, she reflected on how community in a democracy comes into being “when men and women, acting in common as citizens, get together to find a way to express their collective hopes and possibilities.” This has been a consistent theme in her extensive body of work, including in her 2008 Seymour Martin Lipset Lecture on the topic of Religion and Democracy: Allies or Antagonists?The presentation closed a two-day conference at the University of Chicago Divinity School that focused on Elshtain’s book, Democracy on Trial: Religion, Civil Society, and Democratic Theory. The conference was the second of a four-part cross-disciplinary series on “Jean Bethke Elshtain: The Engaged Mind,” based on themes inspired by Elshtain’s work. The final two conferences (in 2012 and 2013) will concentrate on theology, religion, and politics; and gender, international relations, and just war.Read Carl Gershman’s full Tribute to Jean Bethke Elshtain.Read Carl Gershman’s conference talk, Religion and Democracy: Beyond the Clash of Civilizations
#Revolution Redux: Can Ukrainian Society Be Re-Mobilized in Defense of Democracy##This informal discussion was sponsored by the National Endowment for Democracy and PACT.The post-Orange Revolution period is now seen as a time of missed opportunities. In 2004, Ukrainian society mobilized to defend political and civic rights in the face of flawed presidential elections. NGOs across the country played a significant role in informing citizens, educating voters, mobilizing the electorate and monitoring the election process. After the 2004 election, however, many NGOs failed to hold the new government accountable and turned away from working on grassroots civic issues to become a more professionalized third sector divorced from its constituency.Since the 2010 presidential election, civil society’s ability to influence and engage with the authorities has also been curtailed. Where does this leave civil society on the eve of parliamentary elections in 2012?Dr. Nadia Diuk, NED’s Vice President for Europe, Eurasia, Africa and Latin America, chaired this moderated discussion with representatives from a broad spectrum of Ukrainian civil society (see bios below). This discussion focused on the following questions:Alyona Getmanchuk, Director of the Institute of World Policy (IWP), is an experienced foreign policy analyst and media and NGO manager. Most recently, Ms. Getmanchuk served as editor-in-chief of Glavred for four years. Her work includes numerous published articles, policy papers, and interviews, including the first interview of an American president given to a Ukrainian journalist. She holds a specialist’s degree from Taras Shevchenko University (2000), and completed professional development programs in Japan and South Korea. She was awarded the title of the Honorary Journalist of Ukraine by the President of Ukraine (2009), a Distinction Medal and an Honorary Certificate by the Foreign Affairs Ministry of Ukraine (2005, 2008).Oleksandr Suprunets (“Sasha Shagi”) is the co-founder, head coordinator and Creative Director of the Garage Gang Kollektiv NGO, editor-in-chief of Biggggidea.com and director of Moi pareni nogi production. He has over five years experience working with media-related projects: Art project of people and sparrows, Woman 3000, Sunday Borshch, etc. From 2008-09 he served as Account Manager for Adam Smith advertising agency. From 2007–08, he served as project manager at the BBDO Ukraine Global Advertising Agency. Also, from 2007-09 he was a journalist for Korrespondent, Focus, 24 and Ukrainska Pravda. In 2008 he completed his Master’s in international marketing and advertising at the Inter-regional Academy of Personnel Management (Kyiv). From 2002-07 he was the editor-in-chief of a student newspaper at IRAPM.Andrii Bychenko graduated from the Kyiv Polytechnic Institute (Faculty of Electro-acoustics) in 1996. From 1995-99 he worked for the Marketing Research Agency, Media Bureau of the Consulting Ukraine Company (Leading Specialist), Prime Advertising and Marketing Company (Director, Consulting Center), and Industrial Distribution Systems production and commercial firm (analyst). In January 2000 he was invited to join the Razumkov Center to establish a sociological department and has since served as its director. During this period, he has overseen the carrying out of over 400 studies in different fields, particularly in politics and civil society, using a plethora of different methodologies.Svitlana Zalishchuk is Deputy Chairperson at Center UA, where she coordinates the NGO’s New Citizen Campaign. She also serves as secretary of the National Commission on the Development of Information and Freedom of Speech. Before working in civil society, she was press secretary for Oleh Rybachuk when he was chief of staff to the president of Ukraine. She has also worked as an international reporter at Channel 5. She currently is pursuing a Ph.D at Taras Shevchenko University.Oleksii Khmara is the President of the Creative Union TORO (the contact group of Transparency International in Ukraine) and one of the leading Ukrainian specialists in anti-corruption programs. He is a member of the National Anti-Corruption Committee, Public Council of the Authorized Governmental Representative for Anti-Corruption Policies, and Expert Council of the Head of the Kirovograd Regional State Administration. After becoming a civil activist in 1999, he specializing in public policy analysis after participating in a Government Internship Program organized by the National Democratic Institute and Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine.Maksym Latsyba is a Project Director and member of the board of the Ukrainian Center for Independent Political Research (UCIPR). He also is Deputy Head of the Public Councils at the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. He is considered to be a leading expert on civil society development and public participation. Over the past six years, he has played a significant role in developing and advocating for all major legislative initiatives on civil society development, including the Law “On Access to Public Information,” amendments to the Tax Code on the taxation of charities, and government resolution on public participation in decision-making. Currently he heads a working group that is developing a National Strategy for Civil Society Development for the president of Ukraine.Viktoriya Cherevko has headed the Kharkiv branch of the All-Ukrainian Youth Organization Democratic Alliance (DemAlliance) since 2006 and has been a member of its board since August 2011. Within DemAllience, Victoria is a lead trainer and coordinator of the advocacy program supported by USAID. She graduated from the National Technical University of Kharkiv (NTU) and launched her career as a professor and head of the Career Center in NTU. She joined the civil society sector in 2004. As a student, she initiated the creation of the student government organization at NTU and headed an NGO from 2007–09.Victoria Gumeniuk is the Head of the European Program at the NGO Center UA, where she coordinates the activities of the Civic Experts Council (GER). She is an expert on EU integration issues and a professional researcher. She previously worked at the Kyiv-based think tank International Center for Policy Studies (ICPS) as a senior analyst. Victoria holds an MBA degree from the Institute of International Business Relations at Steinbeis University (Germany). Her main areas of expertise are the coordination of European integration in Ukraine: mechanisms and institutions, efficiency of foreign aid, and public policy processes.
#Jean Bethke Elshtain to receive NED Democracy Service Medal#October 7, 2011#Contact: Jane Riley Jacobsen, jane@ned.org, 202-378-9604 or 202-446-8615The National Endowment for Democracy (NED) is pleased to announce that it will present its Democracy Service Medal to Dr. Jean Bethke Elshtain on Thursday, October 13 at 5:30 PM at the University of Chicago Divinity School. The presentation will be a part of The Engaged Mind, a series of four conferences reflecting on themes drawn from the work of Jean Bethke Elshtain. The October 13-14 meeting theme is: Democracy on Trial: Religion, Civil Society, and Democratic Theory.Regularly named as one of America’s foremost public intellectuals, Jean Bethke Elshtain is the Laura Spelman Rockefeller Professor of Social and Political Ethics, Divinity School, The University of Chicago, with appointments in Political Science and the Committee on International Relations. Professor Elshtain served on the Board of Directors of the National Endowment for Democracy for nine years, where she was the Board Specialist for South Asia. She has written and lectured extensively on the topic of Religion and Democracy, and in 2008 Elshtain delivered NED’s annual Seymour Martin Lipset Lecture on Democracy in the World.The Board of Directors of the National Endowment for Democracy created its Democracy Service Medal to recognize individuals who have made significant contributions to the progress of democracy around the world.  
#License to Censor: The Use of Media Regulation to Restrict Press Freedom##The Center for International Media Assistance at the National Endowment for Democracy and Freedom House invite you to a panel discussion onFeaturing:Anwar Iqbal, Dawn Karin Deutsch Karlekar, Freedom House Courtney C. Radsch, Freedom House Steven Strasser, City University of New YorkA Freedom House report, License to Censor: The Use of Media Regulation to Restrict Press Freedom, noted that media regulation is one of the most common and pernicious ways of restricting media freedom around the world. The broadcast sector in many media environments has opened up dramatically in recent years, with a shift from state dominance to a mix of private and state-owned outlets and a growth in cable and satellite channels that compete with terrestrial options.Yet despite these positive trends, official attempts to regulate print and broadcast media continue to be one of the prime methods of restricting media freedom and exerting control over content. A report by the Center for International Media Assistance, Registering Reporters: How Licensing of Journalists Threatens Independent News Media, found that licensing continues to thrive as one way to control the press, with about one out of every four governments examined in the report playing a role in approving who can work as a journalist and who cannot.Panelists discussed examples where regulation restricts media diversity or freedom of expression and provided recommendations for reform.Anwar Iqbal is a correspondent for Dawn and Dawn TV, based in Washington, DC. He has over 25 years of experience with various international media organizations, including United Press International, India Abroad News, and the Observer. Iqbal has interviewed numerous world leaders, including U.S. Presidents Barack Obama and George W. Bush, South African President Nelson Mandela, and Queen Elizabeth II. He was an Alfred Friendly Press Fellow with the Chicago Tribune and a Reuters Fellow at Green College. Iqbal earned his master’s degree in international journalism from City University in London and his bachelor’s degree from the University of Karachi in Pakistan. He is fluent in English and Urdu, and knows Punjabi, Bengali, Pashto, and Persian.Dr. Karin Deutsch Karlekar is the managing editor of Freedom of the Press, an annual index published by Freedom House that tracks trends in media freedom worldwide. She coordinates the research, ratings, and editorial processes for the index, and writes several of the country reports. In addition, she led the development of the methodology for a new index of Internet and digital media freedom published in 2009 and coordinated its pilot edition. She regularly serves as a spokesperson for Freedom House on media issues, and has represented the organization at numerous conferences, workshops, and events on the topics of media indicators, digital media freedom, and press freedom. She also represents Freedom House in the International Freedom of Expression Exchange (IFEX) network, and served as convener of IFEX’s governing council from 2006 to 2009. Karlekar has conducted research, assessment, and advocacy missions to Nigeria, Afghanistan, and Sri Lanka, among other countries, and has traveled extensively in Asia and Africa. Before joining Freedom House, she was an editor at the Economist Intelligence Unit and served as a consultant to Human Rights Watch. Karlekar earned her doctorate in Indian history from Cambridge University, England.Courtney C. Radsch is an international media expert and published author with more than 11 years of journalism and media experience in the U.S. and Middle East. She currently manages the Global Freedom of Expression Campaign at Freedom House, where she leads international advocacy missions and trains civil society advocates. She often serves as a spokesperson for Freedom House on freedom of expression issues, with an emphasis on social media and the Middle East. Her recent appearances include PBS, al-Jazeera, al-Hurra, NPR and VOA. She regularly writes for the Huffington Post, Oxford Analytica, and Arab Media & Society and is the author of several book chapters related to media and the Middle East. Her Arab Media blog is one of the longest running on the topic and she is turning her PhD dissertation, The Revolution will be Blogged: Cyberactivism in Egypt, into a book. Radsch holds a master’s degree from Georgetown University’s School of Foreign Service and a bachelor’s degree from the University of California, Berkeley. She is proficient in Arabic, French, and Spanish. Her Twitter handle is @courtneyr.Steven Strasser is an associate professor at the City University of New York’s Graduate School of Journalism. He is also the author of the CIMA report, Registering Reporters: How Licensing of Journalists Threatens Independent News Media. He began his career as a reporter for the Miami Herald and went on to work as a writer, correspondent, and editor at Newsweek. In New York, he wrote for Newsweek’s international and national affairs departments. Overseas, he served as Moscow correspondent and Hong Kong bureau chief. As managing editor of Newsweek International, Strasser supervised the Europe, Asia, and Latin America editions. He received a National Headliner Award and three Overseas Press Club Awards for his work in the former Soviet Union, China, and Hong Kong. Strasser taught as an adjunct journalism professor at Rutgers University and Purchase College. He co-authored the memoirs of Abu Ghraib’s commanding general, Janis Karpinski, edited the memoirs of the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s Mark Felt (the Watergate source known as “Deep Throat”), and has edited several other books. He earned a bachelor’s degree from the University of Nebraska and a master’s degree from Columbia University.The Center for International Media Assistance, an initiative of the National Endowment for Democracy, brings together a broad range of media experts with the goal of strengthening the support for and improving the effectiveness of media assistance programs by providing information, building networks, and conducting research on the indispensable role independent media play in creating sustainable democracies around the world.Freedom House is an independent watchdog organization that supports the expansion of freedom around the world. Freedom House supports democratic change, monitors freedom, and advocates for democracy and human rights. Since its founding in 1941 by prominent Americans concerned with the mounting threats to peace and democracy, Freedom House has been a vigorous proponent of democratic values and a steadfast opponent of dictatorships of the far left and the far right.   
#Democracy in East Asia and Taiwan in Global Perspective##A two-day conference in Taiwan brought together policymakers, academics and members of civil society to discuss the future of democratic development in East Asia.August 24-25, 2011GIS NTU Convention Center, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan, Republic of ChinaOrganized by Department of Political Science, National Taiwan University International Forum for Democratic Studies, National Endowment for DemocracyCo-Sponsored by Program for East Asia Democratic Studies, Institute for Advanced Studies in Humanities and Social Sciences, National Taiwan UniversitySupported by Ministry of Interior, Republic of ChinaAgenda and papers presented at the conference, courtesy of The Asian Barometer :: more
#New York Democracy Forum Lecture: The US and Pakistan##Following several diplomatic setbacks in recent years, the United States and Pakistan stand posed ready to develop stronger ties and greater communication. The Foreign Policy Association and the National Endowment for Democracy cordially invite you to an evening with Amb. Husain Haqqani, Pakistani Ambassador to the United States, at the New York Democracy Forum Lecture.For more information, visit The Foreign Policy Association.
#New York Democracy Forum: Tsakhia Elbegdorj and Roza Otunbayeva##Sponsored by The Foreign Policy Association and the National Endowment for Democracy.Featured Speakers include:  Robert C. Miller, Chairman, the Hurford Foundation H.E. Roza Otunbayeva, President of Kyrgyrzstan Carl Gershman, President, the National Endowment for Democracy H.E. Tsakhia Elbegdorj, President of Mongolia Noel V. Lateef, President and CEO, the Foreign Policy AssociationH.E. Tsakhia Elbegdorj was elected President of Mongolia in May 2009 and took office in June 2009. He has served four terms in Parliament, holding the positions of vice speaker and majority leader, and two terms as Prime Minister.In 1990, he was a leader of the peaceful democratic movement that ended over 65 years of communist rule in Mongolia.As a Member of Parliament, he codrafted the country’s new constitution, which provides guarantees for human rights, freedom, democracy, and a market economy. He also founded in 1990 Mongolia’s first independent newspaper, Democracy, and helped to establish the country’s first independent television station. The government of Kyrgyzstan sent lawmakers to Mongolia in April 2011 to study the law on press freedom that he worked to initiate and institute.Mongolia’s first Entrepreneurs Association was founded and directed by Tsakhia Elbegdorj. In 1991, this association helped to transfer livestock ownership from socialist collectives to private herders. For almost half of Mongolia’s population, this livestock constituted their first private property.In 2009, he established the Citizens’ Hall podium for Mongolians to express their views on issues under consideration by the government. He continues to work for the transfer of power from the central government to local governments and to introduce direct democracy. His other priorities include fighting poverty and corruption, and he was an organizer of the World Economic Forum’s Partnering Against Corruption Initiative. In Mongolia, he established the country’s first Judiciary Reform and Justice Forum, which was held in April 2011.In July 2011, Tsakhia Elbegdorj began a two-year term as president of the Community of Democracies, an intergovernmental organization of democracies and democratizing countries that works to strengthen and deepen democratic norms and practices worldwide. He is a member of the World Economic Forum’s Global Agenda Council on Climate Change and has lectured on environmental protection abroad. He was instrumental in organizing the June 2011 international conference on water security in Mongolia.Tsakhia Elbegdorj received a Bachelor’s degree in journalism from Land Forces Military Academy in the former Soviet Union and a Master of Public Administration degree from Harvard University’s John F. Kennedy School of Government.Agenda:Welcome by Robert C. Miller Mongolia and United States National Anthems performed by the West Point Band’s Regimental Brass Quintet Dinner Introduction of H.E. Roza Otunbayeva by Carl Gershman Remarks by H.E. Roza Otunbayeva Introduction of H.E. Tsakhia Elbegdorj Presentation of the New York Democracy Forum Presidential Medal to H.E. Tsakhia Elbegdorj Keynote Address by H.E. Tsakhia Elbegdorj Adjournment by Noel V. LateefRemarks by NED President Carl Gershman :: MORE
#Challenges for Independent Media in a Post-Gaddafi Libya##Challenges for Independent Media in a Post-Gaddafi Libya from CIMA on Vimeo.This event featured:Fadel Lamen, American-Libyan Council  Jamal Dajani, Internews Network  Adam Kaplan, USAID* Torben Brandt, International Media SupportModerated by:Amira Maaty, National Endowment for DemocracyIn Freedom House’s Freedom of the Press index for 2011, only two states—Turkmenistan and North Korea—ranked below Libya out of 196 countries. The survey noted that print and broadcast media in Libya were among the most tightly controlled in the world.This event focused on how the uprising has created a major shift in Libyan politics and society, with a proliferation of news outlets in print, broadcast, and digital media. These initiatives, however, are nascent, fluid, and operating in an extremely high-pressure environment.Panelists explored many of the issues facing Libya and provided insight to the following questions: What transitional structures have taken shape in rebel-held areas, and how are they laying the foundation for institutional frameworks for media? Where are the greatest limitations and gaps in capacity? What happens to the revolutionary media when the revolution is over? The panelists will address these questions and identify the most pressing needs and challenges for Libya’s emerging media.Torben Brandt is a media advisor with International Media Support (IMS), where he has been working on a project to support independent media in Libya. IMS is a non-profit organization that supports local media in countries affected by armed conflict, insecurity, and political transition. Brandt has been combining his work as a journalist with his interest in media development activities in the Middle East/North Africa, Asia, and sub-Saharan Africa since 1989. He has worked for a variety of media and media support organizations, including with the Danish Broadcasting Corporation, in production, audience research, and community media, among other areas since 1976.Jamal Dajani is vice president of Middle East, North Africa, Latin America, and the Caribbean at Internews Network. Before joining Internews, Dajani was vice president of international news at Link TV and served as a consultant for PBS’s Frontline/World. In 2004, Dajani won a Peabody Award for his production of Mosaic: World News from the Middle East. A frequent guest on national and international media broadcast networks and a regular blogger for the Huffington Post, he has written widely on the Middle East. Dajani is a board member of New America Media, the largest collaboration of ethnic news organizations in the United States. He earned a bachelor’s degree in political science from Columbia University, and is fluent in Arabic and English, and conversant in Hebrew and French.Adam Kaplan has served as senior media advisor and senior field advisor with the U.S. Agency for International Development’s Office of Transition Initiatives (OTI) designing, launching, and providing technical oversight for programs since 2006 in Sudan, Chad, Kenya, Uganda, Zimbabwe, Liberia, Colombia, Bolivia, Lebanon, Tunisia, Libya, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Nepal, and Kyrgyzstan. Kaplan has focused on media capacity, infrastructure, and regulatory regime development. OTI operates in countries undergoing political transition, and often engages during or immediately after conflict. Prior to his appointment in Washington, DC, he managed OTI’s media development efforts in Afghanistan and West Bank/Gaza. Before entering the development field, Kaplan worked as a documentary filmmaker and freelance television cameraman for numerous U.S. stations and networks. He earned a master’s degree from the University of Denver’s Graduate School of International Studies, focusing on international and intercultural communications, and a bachelor’s degree from Dartmouth College in film studies.Fadel Lamen is president of the American-Libyan Council, a non-profit organization based in Washington, DC, dedicated to strengthening U.S.-Libyan relations through the promotion of educational, cultural, and technology relations. In his role, he advises the Libyan Transitional National Council on education, transition to democracy, and national reconciliation. Lamen has focused on the Middle East and North Africa for over 20 years, and appears frequently in American and Arab media discussing cultural, political, and economic issues in the region. He has supported several U.S. Department of State projects engaging the Arab World, and has collaborated on public diplomacy initiatives in the Middle East and North Africa. He also serves as a senior cultural advisor for the U.S. Department of Defense. Lamen earned a master’s degree in journalism and mass communications from the University of Colorado.*Note: Adam Kaplan’s comments will reflect his own opinions and experiences. They will not represent the opinions or policies of USAID.  Amira Maaty is a program officer on the Middle East and North Africa (MENA) team at the National Endowment for Democracy (NED), where she focuses on Egypt and Libya. Prior to joining the NED, she served as a senior program officer at IREX overseeing international training and education programs. She has also held positions at Internews Network, coordinating journalism training programs in the MENA region. Maaty earned a bachelor’s degree in international affairs from George Washington University and a master’s degree in international peace and conflict resolution from American University.   
#Remarks by Zerxes Spencer at Suvash Darnal Memorial#September 14, 2011#September 14, 2011I first became acquainted with Suvash in the fall of 2007, when he applied for a Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellowship here at NED. Only 27 at the time, Suvash was already remarkably accomplished for someone his age. He had founded a media center, authored a book, launched a Collective Campaign for Peace, and had written extensively on democracy, human rights, and social inclusion in Nepal. Clearly, he was on the fast track to civil society stardom.When Suvash arrived for his fellowship in the fall of 2008, a year later, we knew at once that we were in the presence of a star. It showed in the force of his convictions. In the brilliance of his mind. In his determination to shine a spotlight on the situation of his fellow Dalits in Nepal. And in the glow of his radiant smile.Earlier this year, Sally and I received an email from Larry Diamond. Larry had come across Suvash’s application to Stanford University’s CDDRL Summer Fellows Program and wanted to know what our impressions were of Suvash from his time as a Fellow at NED.Here is how I replied: “Dear Larry: Suvash was a terrific fellow in every respect. He embodied just the sense of purpose and spirit of inquiry we seek in our fellows. He brought with him a commitment to an important cause . . . and an eagerness to draw upon all that the U.S. has to offer in helping him to realize his vision—the emancipation of the Dalit community of Nepal. . . I believe our fellowships are put to best use when invested in folks like Suvash—dynamic, engaging, and spirited activists who have not had much exposure to the West, who make the most of their time here, and who go back to make a difference.”What would I want to say to Suvash if he were with us today?Suvash, you may have been born an “untouchable” in the eyes of your society, but in the course of your short life, you did the unthinkable. Rather than settle for what fate had bestowed upon you, you dared to stand up. You spoke out against injustice. You told the world about the plight of your people and shared your vision of a more inclusive, egalitarian Nepal. And you did so with courage, with conviction, with humility, and always, with your irrepressible smile.Whether you realized it or not, you were—and are—an inspiration—not just to the Dalit community of Nepal, but to oppressed communities everywhere. For anyone who has felt the stigma of exclusion—whether on account of their race or religion, gender or sexual orientation, ethnicity, or political persuasion—has something to learn from your example.You came to us seeking a fellowship, not realizing that you brought with you a fellowship of your own: in the short time that we knew you, you offered us a friendship and an education, combining the best of each to foster just the spirit of camaraderie, learning, and exchange that we seek to build in our program.You made a difference in our lives and in the lives of countless other people around the world. All of us join together today to salute you for your courage and pay tribute to your remarkable accomplishments—as an activist, author, grantee, mentor, humanitarian, fellow, and friend. We are all—each and every one of us—wiser, stronger, better people for having known you.Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellow Fatema Jafari evaluated...Zimbabwean women’s rights advocate Glanis Changachirere will explore the difficulties...
#World Affairs Briefing with President Alassane Dramane Ouattara##Sponsored by The Center for American Progress, Center for Strategic and International Studies, Côte d’Ivoire Watch, the National Democratic Institute and the National Endowment for Democracy.Since taking office in May, President Alassane Dramane Ouattara has reiterated his determination to promote national reconciliation and strengthen democratic institutions and practices in Côte d’Ivoire. His swearing-in ceremony in May marked the end of a violent crisis provoked by the refusal of former President Laurent Gbagbo to leave office after losing last November’s presidential election. The crisis resulted in more than 3,000 deaths and one million displaced.President Ouattara discussed the work by his government to rebuild the economy, foster national reconciliation and strengthen bilateral relations with other African countries, as well as the challenges presented by security sector reform and investigations of past human rights abuses.Formerly an anchor of stability and economic success in West Africa, Côte d’Ivoire continues to influence political and economic trends in the region. Effective democratic governance in Côte d’Ivoire would encourage wider political participation and economic growth in the country, and have a positive impact in neighboring countries.
#Strengthening Freedom and Democratic Governance: The Role of the Parliamentary Forum for Democracy##On the occasion of the International Day of Democracy, the newly organized Parliamentary Forum for Democracy (PFD), a diverse coalition of like-minded parliamentarians organized to strengthen democracy and human rights around the world, convened on Capitol Hill to explore current challenges and how the PFD can develop an agenda to address them. The conference was organized by the Embassy of Lithuania (where the Forum’s Secretariat has been established), with assistance from the National Endowment for Democracy, the International Republican Institute, and the National Democratic Institute.Agenda:9:00 – 9:30 AM  Parliaments and Democracy: The Challenges Ahead Opening Remarks Hon. Emanuelis Zingeris, President, Parliamentary Forum for Democracy  Hon. John A. Boehner, Speaker, U.S. House of Representatives Hon. Irena Degutiene, Speaker, Lithuanian Parliament Hon. Nancy Pelosi, Minority Leader, U.S. House of Representatives (invited) Hon. Chimed Saikhanbileg, Head of the Democratic Party Fraction of the Mongolian Parliament and Chairman, Mongolia-US Parliamentary Group  Hon. Howard Berman, U.S. House of Representatives (invited)9:30-10:30 a.m.  Helping Democracy Succeed: The Role of Parliaments in Assisting Democratic Transitions and Governance During this time of upheaval and change in many parts of the world, how can the Parliamentary Forum for Democracy provide critical assistance to those actors seeking to bring about democratic transitions and strengthen democratic institutions.Moderator:  Les Campbell, Senior Associate and Director for the Middle East and North Africa, National Democratic Institute (NDI) Panelists: Hon. Jozefina Topalli, Speaker, Parliament of Albania Hon. Dan Burton, U.S. House of Representatives Hon. Asiia Sasykbaeva, Vice-Speaker, Parliament of Kyrgyzstan  Hon. Ken Nnamani, former President, Senate of Nigeria Hon. Vytautas Landsbergis, Member, European Parliament Hon. Giorgi Baramidze, Vice Prime Minister, Republic of Georgia Hon. Mihai Ghimpu, Member, Parliament of Moldova Hon. Ted Deutsch, U.S. House of Representatives (invited) Hon. Mark Kirk, U.S. Senate (invited) Aly Abuzaakouk, Executive Director, Libya Human and Political Development Forum Hon. Mbarka Bouaida, Chair, Committee on Foreign Affairs, National Defense and Religious Affairs, Parliament of Morocco Hon. Laura Alonso, National House of Representatives, Argentina Hon. Adriana Gonzalez Carillo, Senate of Mexico (invited)10:30-11:30 a.m.  Defending Freedom and Human Rights: The Role of Parliamentarians in Supporting Democracy in Repressive Countries As the struggle for freedom in repressive countries continues and even intensifies, how can the Parliamentary Forum for Democracy provide political support to threatened democracy activists and advance international norms to defend civil society and human rights?Moderator:  Carl Gershman, President, National Endowment for Democracy Panelists: Hon. Jim McGovern, Co-Chairman, Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission, U.S. Congress Hon. Frank Wolf, Co-Chairman, Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission, U.S. Congress (invited) Radwan Ziadeh, Founder and Director, Damascus Center for Human Rights Studies Hon. Irwin Cotler, former Minister of Justice and Attorney General of Canada  Hon. Ana Gomes, Member, European Parliament  Mr. Anatoly Lebedko, Chairman, United Civic Party, Belarus Mr. Boris Nemtsov, Co-Chairman, People’s Freedom Party, Russia  Hon. Mario Diaz-Balart, U.S. House of Representatives Hon. Christopher Smith, U.S. House of Representatives (invited) Hon. Lincoln Diaz-Balart, former U.S. Representative11:30 -12:00 PM  Conclusion/Next Steps  What are the immediate challenges ahead in building a worldwide network of parliamentarians to advance democracy?Moderator:  Lorne Craner, President, International Republican Institute Panelists: Hon. David Dreier, Chairman, House Democratic Partnership, U.S. Congress Hon. David Price, Ranking Member, House Democratic Partnership, U.S. Congress (invited) Hon. Rinchinnyam Amarjargal, former Prime Minister, Mongolia  Hon. Emanuelis Zingeris, President, Parliamentary Forum for Democracy  
#Challenges to Pakistan’s Democracy##This event featured:Dr. Fouzia Saeed, Mehergarh- A Centre for LearningSince civilian rule returned to Pakistan following the 2008 elections, Pakistan’s fragile democratic rule faces many challenges before it can begin to deliver greater stability, prosperity, and rule of law. Militancy and lawlessness, inflation and economic hardship, political infighting, and corruption have all persisted.Despite these disappointments, there have been some notable achievements. In April 2010, Pakistan’s National Assembly unanimously voted in favor of the 18th Amendment which repealed undemocratic amendments introduced by military dictators, strengthened the federal parliamentary character of the Constitution, and also conferred two new fundamental rights—the right to education and information. The powers of a number of central government ministries were formally transferred to the provinces on July 1, 2011, despite fears that the provincial governments were not adequately prepared and did not have sufficient administrative and technical capacity to take on their expanded responsibilities.Dr. Fouzia Saeed, one of Pakistan’s most well-known and highly respected social activists who played a key role in the passage of two landmark anti-sexual harassment laws in 2010, offered her perspective on the challenges and opportunities of Pakistan’s democratic transition.Dr. Fouzia Saeed is currently Director of Mehergarh- A Centre for Learning, an institute committed to transform the youth of Pakistan, as well as the Director of the Secretariat for the Alliance Against Sexual Harassment (AASHA). Prime Minister Gilani appointed Dr. Saeed as chairperson of the National Implementation Watch Committee in 2010 and prior to that as a member of the National Commission on the Status of Women. Dr. Saeed has worked for decades on issues such as violence against women, prostitution, sexual harassment, bonded labor, minority rights, and anti-talibanization. During her career she has headed the UN Gender Program in Pakistan, served as Pakistan Country Director for Action Aid and founded the first women’s crisis center in Pakistan in 1991.  
#Nigeria’s 2011 Elections and the Challenges Ahead##AgendaWelcoming Remarks:  Marc F. Plattner, International Forum for Democratic Studies10:30–12:00:  “The Nigerian 2011 Elections: Outcome and Consequences” Peter Lewis, Johns Hopkins University’s School of Advanced International Studies Jibrin Ibrahim, Centre for Democracy and Development (Nigeria) Moderator: Oge Onubogu, National Endowment for DemocracyCommentator: Pauline Baker, Fund for Peace12:00–12:30 Lunch12.30–2:00 “The Postelection Agenda” Ayo Obe, Ogunsola Shonibare Law Firm (Nigeria) Darren Kew, University of Massachusetts at Boston Moderator: Larry Diamond, Stanford UniversityCommentator: Gwendolyn Mikell, Georgetown University  
#Belarus’ Political Prospects: A Panel Discussion with Tribute to Vitali Silitsky##Presented by CSIS Russia & Eurasia Program, National Endowment for Democracy and PONARS Eurasia.Vitali Silitsky, a prominent and accomplished young Belarusian political scientist and democracy advocate, tragically passed away June 2011. This discussion of the current situation in Belarus provided an up-to-date analysis of events on the ground, combined with an appreciation of the contributions that Vitali made to his native country and to the political science discipline.Speakers included:Dzianis Melyantsou, Belarusian Institute for Strategic Studies Arkady Moshes, Finnish Institute of International Affairs Mitchell A. Orenstein, Johns Hopkins University Lucan Way, University of TorontoWith opening remarks and tribute to Vitali Silitsky. 
#The Legal Enabling Environment for Independent Media##Featuring:Enrique Armijo, Covington & Burling, LLP Jamal Dajani, Internews Network Amy Hawthorne, U.S. Department of State Drusilla Menaker, International Research & Exchanges Board Toby Mendel, Centre for Law and Democracy Joan Barata Mir, Universitat Ramon Llull Natasha Tynes, International Center for JournalistsModerated by Stephen Fuzesi, Jr., CIMA Advisory CouncilDownload the full Report: Legal Enabling Environment for Independent Media in Egypt and TunisiaMore than 70 people attended a roundtable discussion co-hosted by CIMA and Internews Network on media law in Egypt and Tunisia after the Arab Spring. The discussion explored how media assistance stakeholders are analyzing how reforms will affect the legal enabling environment for independent media as the two countries prepare for elections in the fall.A recent report by the Center for International Media Assistance, Media and the Law: An Overview of Legal Issues and Challenges, finds that the legal conditions under which news media operate are crucial factors to the sector’s success. A liberal and empowering legal regime can enable the growth of media and allow them to fulfill their function as watchdog of democratic society without fear of legal sanction, thus helping to make governments more accountable. The attendees discussed, among other topics, the following questions:Enrique Armijo is an associate at Covington & Burling, LLP in Washington, DC, where he practices media and appellate law. As part of Covington’s pro bono international freedom of expression practice, he has advised the governments of Jordan, Bahrain, Yemen, and Rwanda on proposed amendments to their media and access to information laws, and has provided assessments of public broadcasting statutes for developing democracies in Asia and the Middle East. Prior to joining the firm, Armijo was at the Programme for Comparative Media Law and Policy at the University of Oxford’s Centre for Socio-Legal Studies, working on international media law projects and conducting comparative research on media ownership regulation in the United States and Europe.Jamal Dajani is vice president of Middle East, North Africa, Latin America, and the Caribbean at Internews Network. Before joining Internews, Dajani was vice president of International News at Link TV, and served as a consultant for PBS Frontline World. In 2004, Dajani won the prestigious Peabody Award for his production of Mosaic: World News from the Middle East. A frequent guest on national and international media broadcast networks and a regular blogger for the Huffington Post, he has written widely on the Middle East, including The Arab Media Revolution. Dajani is a board member of New America Media, the largest collaboration of ethnic news organizations in the United States. He earned a bachelor’s degree in political science from Columbia University.Amy Hawthorne joined the Department of State as senior advisor in the Office of the Middle East Partnership Initiative (MEPI), Bureau of Near Eastern Affairs, in January 2011, where she advises on democracy promotion programs and policies in the region. Previously, Hawthorne was the founding executive director of the Hollings Center for International Dialogue, which operates in Washington and Istanbul to promote dialogue between citizens of the United States and Muslim-majority countries. She was an associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, where she was the founding editor of the Arab Reform Bulletin and wrote about Arab politics and democratization. Prior to that, she was senior program officer for the Middle East at the International Foundation for Electoral Systems, where she led numerous programs to develop democracy in the region, and served as a consultant to many democracy promotion organizations. Hawthorne has spent extensive time in the Arab world and Turkey, and speaks Arabic. She earned a bachelor’s degree from Yale University and a master’s degree from the University of Michigan and was a Fulbright Scholar at Al Azhar University in Cairo. Hawthorne was an Aspen Ideas Festival Scholar and has published widely on democratization and democracy promotion in the Middle East.Drusilla Menaker is a senior media advisor at the International Research & Exchanges Board (IREX). She develops media strengthening programs in Africa, Asia, the Middle East, and Eurasia and provides expertise on program management, capacity building, advocacy efforts, and integration of media into civil society and education initiatives. Menaker is also a founder and associate director of IREX Europe, IREX’s partner organization based in Lyon, France. She joined IREX in 2001 as chief of party for an independent print media program in Russia funded by USAID. Before joining IREX, Menaker was a foreign correspondent working across Europe, the Middle East, and Africa and a reporter, editor, and bureau chief for the Associated Press in the United States. She earned a master’s degree from Columbia University’s Graduate School of Journalism and a bachelor’s degree from the University of Pennsylvania.Toby Mendel is the author of Political and Media Transitions in Egypt: A Snapshot of the Media Policy and Regulatory Environment, a new report on media law in Egypt as part of a regional assessment by Internews. He is the founder and executive director of the Centre for Law and Democracy. Mendel was senior director for law at Article 19, a human rights organization focusing on freedom of expression and the right to information. He has provided expertise on these rights to the World Bank, intergovernmental bodies, and numerous governments and non-governmental organizations around the world. In these roles, he has often helped draft legislation in the areas of the right to information and media regulation. Before joining Article 19, he worked as a senior human rights consultant with Oxfam Canada and as a human rights policy analyst at the Canadian International Development Agency. He has published extensively on a range of freedom of expression, right to information, communication rights, and refugee issues, including comparative legal and analytical studies on public service broadcasting, the right to information, and broadcast policy. Mendel earned a bachelor’s degree in mathematics from McGill University and a bachelor’s degree in law from Dalhousie University.Joan Barata Mir is the author of Political and Media Transitions in Tunisia: A Snapshot of the Media Policy and Regulatory Environment, a new report on media law in Tunisia as part of a regional assessment by Internews. He is the vice dean for international relations at the Blanquerna Communications School at the Universitat Ramon Llull in Barcelona and associate professor at the Law Department of the Open University of Catalonia. He has been a visiting research scholar at the University of Bologna and the Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law at Yeshiva University. Previously, he was head of the president’s cabinet and secretary general for the Catalonia Audiovisual Council. He earned his doctorate at the University of Barcelona, writing a thesis on television and public service theory. His recent academic writings cover democracy and the media. His research interests are public services, regulation, media law, telecommunications law, privacy law, the Internet, and e-government.Natasha Tynes is the program director at the International Center for Journalists (ICFJ), where she is responsible for developing and managing ICFJ’s Middle East programs, including online journalism and blogging. She has worked as a reporter in the Middle East for more than a decade. She is a former reporter and editor for al-Jazeera, the Jordan Times, and Arabia Online. She has a master’s degree in international journalism from London’s City University and a bachelor’s degree in biological sciences from the University of Jordan. She is a native Arabic speaker and is fluent in English and proficient in Spanish.Stephen Fuzesi, Jr. has held leadership roles in, and been outside legal counsel and advisor to, international entities in the communications and news media, banking and finance sectors. Most recently, he served as vice president, chief counsel, and secretary of Newsweek, Inc. from 1994-2010. He was instrumental in the launch of Newsweek licensed editions through global strategic alliances in Arabic, Chinese, Polish, Russian, Spanish, Turkish, and most recently in English in Pakistan. Prior to Newsweek, Fuzesi was with White & Case, where he established the international law firm’s Budapest office in 1991, focusing on reforms in the telecom, finance, and securities sectors in the region. He is a member of CIMA’s Advisory Council and on the Board of Directors of Words without Borders. Fuzesi received a bachelor’s degree from Princeton University’s Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs. He earned his law degree from the University of Pennsylvania Law School, where he served as an editor of the Law Review.
#The Global Report on the Status of Women in the News Media##The Global Report on the Status of Women in the News Media from CIMA on Vimeo.The Center for International Media Assistance at the National Endowment for Democracy and the International Women’s Media Foundation sponsored this presentation of:Carolyn M. Byerly, Report Author Shirley M. Carswell, The Washington Post Liza Gross, International Women’s Media Foundation Mónica Villamizar, al-Jazeera EnglishModerated by Suzanne Garment, CIMA Advisory CouncilWatch video online here.CIMA presented The Global Report on the Status of Women in the News Media (PDF), by the International Women’s Media Foundation. The free flow of information is an essential ingredient of open and democratic societies, and this includes an equal voice for women in the gathering and dissemination of news. Based on interviews with 500 companies in almost 60 countries around the world, the report explores the role of women in determining and shaping the news agenda. It examines whether media companies are currently organized to promote gender equity within their organizations or to accommodate women’s voices as well as men’s perspectives in coverage.The discussion featured the report’s research and findings, conducted over a two-year period, on women’s status globally in news media ownership, publishing, editing, and production, among other media jobs.Carolyn M. Byerly is professor in the department of journalism and a member of the mass communications and media studies graduate faculty at Howard University’s School of Communications. She teaches research methods, communications theory, feminism and media, development communication, and political communication. Her research includes the relationship of women, racial, and sexual minorities to the news media, including a study on reshaping the Federal Communications Commission policy to expand media ownership by women and people of color. Byerly earned her doctorate and master’s degree from the University of Washington and her bachelor’s degree from the University of Colorado Boulder. Before entering academic life, she worked as a journalist, government public information officer, and director of non-profit organizations. She is the co-author of Women and Media: A Critical Introduction and the co-editor of Women and Media: International Perspectives, among other works.Shirley M. Carswell is a professional journalist and manager with more than 20 years of experience in one of the nation’s leading newsrooms. As deputy managing editor of the Washington Post since 2009, she is a member of the senior leadership team that sets coverage and staffing priorities for the newspaper and website. In addition to managing the budget, daily operations, and news personnel, Carswell oversees special events planning and projects, such as a recent newsroom redesign and renovation. She worked as an editor at newspapers in Richmond, VA, and Pontiac and Detroit, MI, before moving to the Washington Post in 1988 to join the Metro copy desk. She became the Post’s assistant managing editor (AME) for planning and administration, with responsibilities including the newsroom’s multimillion-dollar operating budget and its information technology and administrative support staffs. At the time, she was the youngest person ever promoted to the AME level at the Post and the first African-American woman. Carswell earned a bachelor’s degree in journalism from Howard University, and is a graduate of the Dow-Jones Newspaper Fund editing program and the Advanced Executive Program at Northwestern University’s Media Management Center. She is a member of the American Society of News Editors and the National Association of Black Journalists. Carswell was a 2004 McCormick Tribune Fellow.Liza Gross is the executive director of the International Women’s Media Foundation (IWMF). Before assuming her position at the IWMF, Gross was managing editor/presentation and operations for the Miami Herald, where she was responsible for the newspaper’s visual appearance, daily production, and weekend news sections. Gross, who has almost 30 years of experience in journalism and communications, is a former executive managing editor of El Nuevo Día, the largest circulation daily newspaper in Puerto Rico, and a former publisher of Éxito, the Spanish-language daily of the Chicago Tribune. A native of Argentina, Gross was an instructor and editor for the Latin American Journalism Program, an educational initiative of Florida International University in Miami. She also served as a reporter and editor on the Latin America desk of the Associated Press in New York City, managing editor of Hispanic magazine, and executive editor of Times of the Americas, a Washington-based bimonthly covering Latin America and the Caribbean.Mónica Villamizar is an award-winning correspondent for al-Jazeera English based in Washington, DC. She earned a master’s degree in political science from the Institut d’Études Politiques in Paris. Villamizar speaks English, French, and Japanese, in addition to her native Spanish. She has covered the Guantanamo military tribunals, the Haiti earthquake, the Colombian drug war, Mexican border issues, and the favelas of Rio de Janeiro. She received a Premio Nacional de Periodismo Simón Bolívar award for best TV feature or report, for a series of reports on South Africa’s peace process in 2006.Suzanne Garment is counsel and consultant to non-profit organizations and a visiting scholar at the Center on Philanthropy at Indiana University, where she is writing, with Leslie Lenkowsky, a book on the politics of American philanthropy. She served as special counsel to New York Lieutenant Governor Richard Ravitch and is currently counsel to the Task Force on the State Budget Crisis, co-chaired by Ravitch and former Federal Reserve chairman Paul Volcker. Prior to her practice of law, she was a resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute. She was also associate editor of the editorial page of the Wall Street Journal, where she wrote the weekly column “Capital Chronicle.” Garment served as special assistant to the U.S. ambassador to the United Nations, Daniel P. Moynihan. She has taught politics and public policy at Harvard University and Yale University. Garment is the author of Scandal: The Culture of Mistrust in American Politics and Decision to Prosecute: Organization and Public Policy in the U.S. Antitrust Division, as well as numerous articles, op-ed pieces, and reviews. She earned a bachelor’s degree from Radcliffe College, a master’s degree from the University of Sussex in the United Kingdom, a doctorate in political science at Harvard University, and juris doctorate and master of laws’ degrees in taxation from Georgetown University Law Center.
#Securing Dalit Rights and Building Democracy in Nepal: The Legacy of Suvash Darnal##Securing Dalit Rights and Building Democracy in Nepal: The Legacy of Suvash Darnal from National Endowment for Democracy on Vimeo.Featured Speakers:Larry Diamond, Stanford University  Iain Guest, Advocacy Project Brian Joseph, National Endowment for Democracy Tim Rieser, U.S. Senate Committee on Appropriations Krishna Sob, Dalit and development expertModerator:  Carl Gershman, NED PresidentAt this event, we celebrated the life and work of Suvash Darnal, a Nepalese democracy and human rights advocate, and former Reagan-Fascell Fellow, who was killed Aug. 15 in a highway accident outside Washington, D.C.Darnal was highly devoted to the cause of marginalized groups in Nepal, particularly the Dalit community. As founder and managing director of the Samata Foundation, a Kathmandu-based research and advocacy organization that is a NED grantee, Darnal worked to bolster the involvement of Dalits in policy making and to ensure that Nepal’s new constitution includes protections for Dalits and other minorities.Larry Diamond is Senior Fellow at the Hoover Institution and at the Freeman Spogli Institute for International Studies at Stanford University, where he also directs the Center on Democracy, Development, and the Rule of Law. He is founding co-editor of the Journal of Democracy and also serves as Senior Consultant to NED’s International Forum for Democratic Studies. He is the author and editor of numerous books on democratic development, including The Spirit of Democracy: The Struggle to Build Free Societies Throughout the World.Brian Joseph is Senior Director for Asia and Global Programs at the National Endowment for Democracy, where he has worked since 1995. From 2005 to 2009 he served as Director of South and Southeast Asia Programs, in which capacity he oversaw millions of dollars worth of grants to hundreds of civil society organizations in the region. He has testified before the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations’ Subcommittee on East Asia and Pacific Affairs and the Congressional Human Rights Caucus. He formerly served as a volunteer South Asia regional coordinator for Amnesty International USA.Krishna Sob is Director of Grants and Contract Administration at the International City/County Management Association, in Washington, D.C. An international development practitioner with over 20 years of program management experience, he has worked in about fifteen countries around the world. He was born in the western part of Nepal, and in his youth he organized Dalit communities to protest the caste discrimination that was pervasive there. After completing his master’s degree, he played a critical role in the 1980s in presenting the Dalit movement’s agenda to the Nepalese government on a national stage for the first time. He also oversaw the first research study to assess the situation of Dalits, and has written several articles and stories about the Dalit movement.Tim Rieser is the Democratic Clerk of the U.S. Senate Appropriations Subcommittee that has jurisdiction over the Department of State and Foreign Operations, where he has worked for over 20 years. He served from 1985 to 1989 as a Legislative Aide to Democratic Senator Patrick Leahy of Vermont. Prior to working in the Senate, he practiced law as a public defender in Washington County, Vermont, and spent a year at the Harvard Law School Negotiation Project.Iain Guest is Executive Director of the Advocacy Project, a DC-based organization that helps marginalized communities around the world to tell their story, claim their rights, and produce social change. He has an extensive background working with civil society in countries in conflict. From 1976 to 1987 he was a Geneva-based correspondent for the Guardian and the International Herald Tribune. He also has written a book on the disappearances in Argentina; served as spokesperson for the UNHCR operation in Cambodia (1992) and the UN humanitarian operation in Haiti (2004); and conducted missions to Rwanda and Bosnia for the UN, USAID, and UNHCR. In addition to his work with the Advocacy Project, he is an adjunct professor at Georgetown University’s School of Foreign Service, where he teaches courses on human rights.Marc F. Plattner is founding coeditor of the Journal of Democracy, vice-president for research and studies at the National Endowment for Democracy (NED), and director of the International Forum for Democratic Studies. He served as NED’s director of program from 1984 to 1989. He is the author of Democracy Without Borders? Global Challenges to Liberal Democracy (2008) and Rousseau’s State of Nature (1979). His articles on a wide range of international and public policy issues have appeared in numerous books and journals. Over the past two decades, he has coedited with Larry Diamond more than twenty books on contemporary issues relating to democracy in the Journal of Democracy book series. Book of tributes remembering Suvash Darnal :: PDFRemarks by Zerxes Spencer :: moreRemarks by Tim Rieser :: moreRemarks by Ted Samuel :: moreRemarks by Sally Blair :: moreRemarks by Brian Joseph :: moreRemarks by Jeffrey Smith :: moreRemarks to the United States Senate by Sen. Patrick Leahy:: MORE
#Elections in Russia: Polling and Perspectives##Elections in Russia: Poling and Perspectives – Denis Volkov from National Endowment for Democracy on Vimeo.Featuring:Denis Volkov – Yuri Levada CenterPanel Discussion: Angela Stent – Georgetown University Vladimir Kara-Murza – Solidarnost (“Solidarity”) David Satter – Hudson Institute Moderator: Nadia M. Diuk National Endowment for DemocracyMr. Denis Volkov presented recent data from polls conducted by the Levada Center, Russia’s most highly regarded independent polling organization.Topics included:The Levada Center’s research on nationalist incidents such as the Manezh riots of December 2010 and the challenges faced by Russia’s civil society was also discussed.A panel of distinguished experts commented on the polling and offered their own views and analysis of Russia’s political trajectory.Denis Volkov earned his M.A. in Political Science from the Moscow School of Social and Economic Sciences and Manchester University, and has attended post-graduate programs at Stanford University and Philadelphia University. Mr. Volkov currently serves as a researcher and head of PR and Development at the Yuri Levada Center, a Moscow-based independent analytical center. Mr. Volkov is a regular commentator on socio-political issues in Russia and his work is often featured in Novaya Gazeta, Gazeta.ru, and Ezhednevny Zhurnal. Mr. Volkov’s current research includes work on the sources and limits of democratization in Russia, youth political engagement, and digital media and socio-political change in Russia.Angela Stent is Director of the Center for Eurasian, Russian and East European Studies and Professor of Government and Foreign Service at Georgetown University. From 2004-2006 she served as National Intelligence Officer for Russia and Eurasia at the National Intelligence Council. Among her numerous publications are Russia and Germany Reborn: Unification, the Soviet Collapse and The New Europe (Princeton, 1999) and Restoration and Revolution in Putin’s Foreign Policy (2008).Vladimir Kara-Murza is a member of the federal council of Solidarnost (“Solidarity”), Russia’s democratic opposition movement. He has served as campaign chairman for presidential candidate Vladimir Bukovsky (2007–08) and advisor to Duma opposition leader Boris Nemtsov. Kara-Murza was a candidate for the Russian parliament in the 2003 elections, representing the Union of Right Forces and Yabloko parties. He is the author of Reform or Revolution: The Quest for Responsible Government in the First Russian State Duma (Moscow 2011) and a contributor to Russia’s Choices: The Duma Elections and After (London 2003) and Russian Liberalism: Ideas and People (Moscow 2007). He is the Washington bureau chief of RTVi television.David Satter is a senior fellow at the Hudson Institute and a fellow of the Foreign Policy Institute of Johns Hopkins University School of Advanced International Studies (SAIS). He has written three books about Russia: It Was a Long Time Ago and It Never Happened Anyway: Russia and the Communist Past (Yale, 2011); Age of Delirium: the Decline and Fall of the Soviet Union (Knopf, 1996; paperback, Yale 2001); and Darkness at Dawn: the Rise of the Russian Criminal State (Yale 2003).
#Moldova’s Democratic Transition: 20 Years of Challenges and Successes##Sponsored by The National Endowment for Democracy, Freedom House and the Moldova Foundation to celebrate the Republic of Moldova’s 20th anniversary of independence.Panel Discussion: Moldova’s Democratic Transition: 20 Years of Challenges and Successes Mary Pendleton, U.S. First Ambassador to Moldova (1992-1995) David Kramer, President of the Freedom House Vlad Spânu, President of the Moldova Foundation Moderator – Bobbie Jo Traut, Assistant Program Officer for Europe, NEDOn August 27, 1991, the Republic of Moldova proclaimed its independence from the Soviet Union. Since that time, Moldova’s path to building a free and democratic society has been fraught with challenges. The frozen conflict in Transnistria, authoritarian government, economic troubles, and weak civil society are just some of the obstacles the country has struggled to overcome. In the last three years, however, the country has experienced significant and positive changes.A pro-reform government, better prospects for EU integration, and growing US support are encouraging signs that Moldova is on the right path and make the country one of the few success stories in the former Soviet space. Twenty years after the collapse of the USSR, experts shared their thoughts on the state of democracy in Moldova, the country’s transition process, and ways to continue strengthening Moldova’s state institutions and civil society.As we celebrated Independence Day, we commemorated another important holiday for Moldovans – Language Day. On August 31, 1989, Moldova’s Supreme Soviet passed a law allowing the use of Latin script for the Romanian language.
#NED Mourns the Tragic Death of Suvash Darnal#August 16, 2011#The National Endowment for Democracy (NED) is mourning the tragic death of Nepalese democracy and human rights advocate Suvash Darnal, who was killed on August 15th in a highway accident outside Washington, D.C. “Suvash’s death is a huge loss, for his family most of all and his friends, and also for his country,” said Carl Gershman, President of the National Endowment for Democracy, where Darnal was a Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellow in late 2008 and early 2009. “He had so much to give,” added Gershman. “He was such an extraordinarily good and positive person, always with a sparkle and a smile. He is deeply mourned and will be sorely, painfully missed.”Darnal was highly devoted to the cause of marginalized groups in Nepal, particularly the Dalit community. As founder and managing director of the Samata Foundation, a Kathmandu-based research and advocacy organization that is a NED grantee, Darnal worked to bolster the involvement of Dalits in policy making and to ensure that Nepal’s new constitution includes protections for Dalits and other minorities. “Suvash was a leading Dalit activist with fresh ideas and a progressive vision for his country,” said Mona Dave, NED Program Officer for Asia. “He worked tirelessly to end discrimination against the Dalit community and other minority groups. Suvash was an inspiration to all he encountered and his tragic death is a great loss. We will always remember his gentle demeanor and kind heart.”Darnal, who recently completed a fellowship at Stanford University’s Center for Democracy, Development and the Rule of Law, was also the founding member of the Jagaran Media Center, created to build awareness in the media about marginalized groups and train Dalit youth as journalists. According to Brian Joseph, NED’s Senior Director for Asia, “Not only was Suvash a dedicated and principled activist, he was also a creative thinker who was always willing to engage in discussions in an effort to refine his ideas. He will be deeply missed by all who knew him.”  Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellow Tilak Pathak explained...Remarks Carl Gershman's remarks honoring Suvash Darnal...Securing Dalit Rights and Building Democracy in Nepal:...Remarks by NED President Carl Gershman on the Enduring Importance of Suvash...
#The Challenges of a Transition to Democracy in Libya##On July 27, 2011, the National Endowment for Democracy’s International Forum for Democratic Studies convened a meeting of democracy practitioners and leading experts on democratic transitions, conflict stabilization/transformation, and electoral and constitutional design for the purpose of identifying challenges to and opportunities for reform as Libyans attempt to path a democratic future.The meeting addressed the political system of Libya, scenarios and challenges for post-conflict stabilization and transformation, and challenges to and options for a democratic transition. The conference report highlights some of the principal insights, dilemmas, conclusions, and options identified in the discussion.Download the Conference Report ::PDF
#Discussion with President Alpha Condé of the Republic of Guinea##This event was co-sponsored by The National Endowment for Democracy,The Center for Strategic and International Studies, and The National Democratic Institute.President Alpha Condé was sworn in on December 3 as the Republic of Guinea’s first democratically-elected president after 50 years of authoritarian and military rule. Though richly endowed with natural resources, Guinea is one of the poorest countries in West Africa. Decades of economic mismanagement and political repression have stunted economic growth and inhibited the development of democratic practices. An assassination attempt on President Condé on July 19 vividly demonstrates the fragility of Guinea’s nascent democracy.Since assuming power, President Condé has reiterated his determination to promote good governance and national reconciliation, strengthen democratic institutions and undertake security sector reform. Guinea is scheduled to hold legislative elections before the end of the year.President Condé briefed the audience on his government’s actions after seven months in office and shared his vision and priorities for the country.Moderated by:Kenneth Wollack President, National Democratic Institute
#Remarks by Senator Richard J. Durbin, Voices from the Congo: The Road Ahead The US Holocaust Memorial Museum#July 27, 2011#I want to thank Mike Abramowitz for that generous introduction. I also want to thank the co-hosts of this important conference, The US Holocaust Memorial Museum, The National Endowment for Democracy, and The Eastern Congo Initiative. I am particularly honored to share a program with Annie Chebeya and the brave leaders from the Democratic Republic of Congo who are here today.I have travelled to Congo twice – in 2005 and again in 2010. It is a nation of breathtaking natural beauty, rich in natural resources. It is also a badly broken country, dominated by relentless poverty, war lords, pillaging soldiers, and horrific, almost incomprehensible, violence. The barbaric civil war in Congo is the most lethal conflict since World War II.More than 1,100 women and girls are raped every day in Congo. That is nearly one woman every minute. That is the worst record of sexual violence of any nation on Earth. The victims are usually raped by several men at a time in front of family members and neighbors. The rapes are often followed by mutilation and torture. Women who survive are often stigmatized and abandoned by their families. Many are shunned because their rapes are so violent they can no longer control bodily functions. This form of sexual terrorism not only mutilates its victims physically and psychologically; it destroys entire families and society itself.Like Cindy McCain, I have been to the HEAL Africa hospital in Goma and seen the miraculous work they do there to restore health and dignity to survivors of sexual violence. I visited HEAL Africa in 2005, on a trip with Senator Sam Brownback. I went back in 2010, with Senator Sherrod Brown. Dr. Jo Lusi, who founded the hospital with his wife Lyn, said: “I can’t believe you came the first time, but no one ever comes back!”Dr. Denis Mukwege runs another hospital in Bukavu, the capital of South Kivu province. Panzi Hospital is a one-storey building on a tree-lined, dirt road. It receives about 10 new rape cases a day, every day. And those are only the tip of the iceberg, since most rape survivors never seek treatment. The victims range in age from 2 to 80 years old. Dr. Mukwege says they arrive “broken, waiting for death, hiding their faces.” In a dozen years, Dr. Mukwege and his staff have repaired more than 20,000 of these women and girls. Their work is supported in part by USAID. Dr. Mukwege is sometimes mentioned – deservedly – as a candidate for the Nobel Peace Prize. On his white coat is a badge given to him from a Jewish organization. It is a cry against indifference. It says, “Don’t stand idly by.”Three years ago, I chaired the first-ever hearing in the United States Senate on the use of rape as a weapon of war. The hearing was held under the auspices of the newly formed Subcommittee on Human Rights and the Law. Among our witnesses was Dr. Mukwege. In his testimony, he said we must stop treating only the consequences of sexual violence in Congo and start addressing the root causes.It’s been said that the Congo war contains “wars within wars” – and that is true. But fueling much of the violence is a bloody contest for control of Congo’s vast mineral resources. The DRC is endowed with more mineral wealth than the rest of Africa combined. Four minerals found in eastern Congo are especially prized: tungsten, tin, gold, and coltan. Coltan, which is crucial for the production of microchips, is so widely used in cell phones that it’s been said that we are all carrying a piece of Congo in our pockets. According to the UN, the minerals trade in eastern Congo is worth more than $1 billion a year. The profits they make through the plunder of Congo’s mineral wealth enable some of the most violent groups to survive.One year ago, President Obama signed into law the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform Act. Included in that new law – section 1502 – are requirements that seek to reduce the atrocities connected to conflict minerals. The requirements are simple and modest: Any US company that uses minerals mined in Congo must publicly acknowledge the use of those minerals … and document what measures they are taking, if any, to ensure that they are not purchasing minerals from armed groups or military units and that their trade is not fuelling the conflict. And their statements must be independently audited. Tell consumers the truth and let them decide if they want to buy products made with minerals that finance gang rape and human rights atrocities. Sam Brownback, Russ Feingold and I co-sponsored the bill in the Senate; Jim McDermott and Howard Berman led a similar version in the House. Some have said it’s one of biggest efforts ever to clean up a supply chain. Motorola, based in my state of Illinois, was among a group of forward-thinking electronics companies that helped us get the law passed. It just announced a new project to source conflict-free tantalum – used in the production of coltan — from DRC. The Enough Project has come up with an index measuring the efforts of electronics companies to clean up their supply chains. The index is posted on their website. By enforcing the conflict minerals law, we can make it harder for warlords to buy guns and commit atrocities. And we can help ensure that Congo’s resources are a source of development, not misery, for the Congolese people.We must make it clear that genocide and torture, two of the serious human rights violations that are a crime under US law, can include wartime sexual violence. At the very least, we must ensure that US tax dollars do not fund state armies that fail to prevent their own forces from engaging in mass rape. In the last Congress, the Senate passed the International Violence Against Women Act. Among other things, the International Violence Against Women Act would spotlight widespread violence against women and girls, such as in the Democratic Republic of Congo, by requiring the Secretary of State to develop emergency response plans. This Congress needs to pass it.As human beings, we all have a responsibility to ensure that the products that make our lives easier and more convenient are not making life unbearable for others. As Americans, I believe we have a special responsibility to do what we can to end the horror in Congo. For decades in the past, we turned a blind eye to conflict and corruption in DRC because we considered it an ally in the Cold War. Today, America is home to the largest end-user companies of conflict minerals.Every morning, the brave women and girls at Dr. Mukwege’s Panzi Hospital gather to raise their voices in song. They sing, “Our sufferings on earth,” they sing, “will be relieved in heaven.” We have the power to help them know peace and justice in this life. It is our responsibility to use that power. Thank you for working to see that we do.Activist Passy Mubalama examined how the current political crisis affects women’s...Addressing Human Rights and Governance in Congo:Civil...The National Endowment for Democracy is pleased to...This panel discussion will examine the essential benchmarks...The July 2019 issue of the Journal of Democracy features...
#Democracy and Insecurity in Central America: The Role of the Armed Forces##Intro/First Presenter: Democracy and Insecurity in Central America: The Role of the Armed Forces from National Endowment for Democracy on Vimeo.Featured speakers include:Marcela Donadio Red Seguridad de Seguridad y Defensa de América Latina (RESDAL) :: VIDEOStephen Johnson Director of the Americas Program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS) :: VIDEO  Javier Meléndez Founder, Instituto de Estudios de Estratégicos y Políticas Públicas (IEEPP) ::VIDEOJuan Rial Political Analyst and Member of RESDAL :: VIDEOModerated by:Miriam Kornblith Director, Latin American and the Caribbean, NEDCrime and insecurity represent the main challenge to democratic governance in Central America. The region has a homicide rate of 32 per 100,000; a rate more than three times the world average and seven points higher than the rest of Latin America. Furthermore, organized crime and narcotrafficking have penetrated government institutions increasing levels of corruption and impunity. In a spiral of insecurity and rising economic costs, governments in the region have resorted to increasing the presence and reach of the armed forces through actions such as joint military-police patrols or passing legal reforms. Regional polls like Latinobarometro show trends in some countries of increased tolerance for relinquishing certain civil liberties in exchange for security and order.Marcela Donadio is the Executive Secretary for the Latin American Security and Defense Network (RESDAL). She holds a Ph.D. in Political Science, Master’s degree in Social Science with a focus on Sociology, and B.A. in Political Science. Since 1992 she has worked as a Professor of International Security and National Defense at various national universities. She has participated in numerous courses and seminars on issues of security and defense in countries around the world, and has authored several publications on security and defense, which have appeared in national and international journals. Ms. Donadio has been a Fellow of Initiation and Improvement with the National Council of Scientific and Technical Research (CONICET) of Argentina. She has also received fellowships from the Organization of American States, the Friedrich Naumann Foundation, University of York (Summer Institute), and the International Council for Canadian Studies.Ms. Donadio was the coordinator for a UNDP project for the Homeland Security Council in Argentina (ARG UNDP 06-013), and she currently directs RESDAL projects including “Comparative Atlas of Defense in Latin America,” “Women in the Armed Forces and Police in Latin America: a Gender-based Approach to Peacekeeping Operations,” “Institutional Strengthening of Public Security in Central America,” and “Military Training and Education: the Future Officers and Democracy,” among others.Stephan Johnson is a Senior Fellow and Director of the Americas Program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, a Washington, DC-based think tank.  He has more than 20 years experience in western hemisphere affairs spanning policymaking, policy advocacy, and public affairs in the Department of Defense, the Washington policy community, the State Department, and the U.S. Air Force. From 2007 to 2009, Mr. Johnson served as Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Western Hemisphere Affairs.  He oversaw the development and execution of policies, strategies, and programs governing hemispheric defense and security ties, involving two regional combat commands and three military academic institutions. From 1999 to 2006, Mr. Johnson served as a senior foreign policy analyst at the Washington-based Heritage Foundation, testifying before Congress and authored studies on Latin American politics, trade, and security, as well as public diplomacy, and immigration. Johnson has spoken at numerous conferences in the United States and in Latin America.  His commentaries have appeared in the Wall Street Journal, Miami Herald, Business Week, and Diario Las Américas.  His broadcast appearances included Al-Jazeera, CNN en Español, Univisión, Telemundo, C-SPAN and MSNBC. Johnson also served in the Bureaus of Inter-American and Public Affairs at the U.S. Department of State.  A retired Air Force officer, he was a pilot and a military attaché.  As a member of the Air Force Reserve, he served in the Office of Public Affairs of the Secretary of the Air Force and at U.S. Southern Command.  Johnson has lived in El Salvador, Honduras, Uruguay, and observed elections in El Salvador, Guatemala, Mexico, and Nicaragua. Javier Meléndez has more than 15 years of experience in governance and is a specialist in the areas of national security and citizen security issues. He is currently a consultant for research institutes active in Central America, from Arlington, Virginia. In 2004, Mr. Meléndez founded the Institute for Strategic Studies and Public Policies (Instituto de Estudios Estratégicos y Políticas Públicas, IEEPP), an independent Nicaraguan think-tank and advocacy organization dedicated to security reform and public sector transparency. As the Executive Director of IEEPP until 2009, he led investigations on security sector reform measures in Nicaragua and throughout Central America, managed budget transparency programs, and trained Nicaraguan legislators on budget analysis.Before taking on the executive direction of IEEPP, Mr. Meléndez served as an advisor to the Nicaraguan Defense Ministry and helped organize the citizen consultation process for the white paper on Nicaragua’s Defense and National Security. He also worked as a program officer for the National Democratic Institute for International Affairs in Washington, D.C. and as a coordinator for the Center for Strategic Studies in Nicaragua. Mr. Meléndez has published, coordinated and edited several publications on defense, public security, international affairs, organized crime and public sector transparency. He has also advised and worked as a consultant for Central American NGOs, and international organization such as the International Development Bank, the UK Department for International Development and the United Nations Regional Centre for Peace, Disarmament and Development in Latin America and the Caribbean (UN-LiREC). In 2009 Mr. Meléndez was member of the Regional Advisory Council for the Human Development Report on citizen security in Central America.Juan Rial is a Uruguayan political scientist, who has worked as the co-coordinator of the Civil-Military Relations in Latin America Project involving American University and Peitho. Recently, he has worked as a consultant to international organizations such as the United Nations Development Program, the InterAmerican Development Bank, the Organization of American States and IDEA International. He has been a Professor of political science at the Universidad de la República and Universidad ORT, both in Montevideo, Uruguay. Mr. Rial has published several books and more than a hundred articles on democracy, institution building, security, and defense in many specialized publications.Miriam Kornblith is a Venezuelan Sociologist and Political Scientist. She developed her academic career as a professor and researcher at of the Institute of Political Studies at the Central University of Venezuela. Kornblith’s study of the contemporary Venezuelan political system spans constitutional reform, political institutions and parties and electoral processes, and has published extensively on those topics. From 1998 to 1999 she served as the Vice-President and member of the board of directors of National Electoral Council of Venezuela.  Currently, she is the Director of Latin American and Caribbean Program at the National Endowment for Democracy in Washington DC.
#Engendering the Movement for Democracy in Iran##FeaturingMs. Mahboubeh Abbasgholizadeh Reagan-Fascell Democracy FellowWith comments byMs. Mahnaz Afkhami Women’s Learning Partnership for Rights, Development, and PeaceOver the past three decades, the Women’s Movement has played a critical role in the struggle for equal rights in Iran. Women were a forceful presence during the 2009 Green Movement demonstrations, in which millions of Iranians poured onto the streets to demand democratic accountability.  The Women’s Movement’s social networks facilitated the rapid spread of information amongst protesters, and the Movement’s leadership provided organizational guidance. Despite the strong support the Green Movement has received from women, gender marginalization within the Movement remains a persist issue. Strategic decisions within Iran’s pro-democracy community continue to be made by men, and patriarchal attitudes remain prevalent. In her presentation, Ms. Mahboubeh Abbasgholizadeh, a leader of the Iranian Women’s Movement, explored how women activists can draw attention to gender perspectives and promote a culture of equality within the Green Movement.  By identifying shared values in a number of key areas, Ms. Abbasgholizadeh sought to locate common ground and present a strategy for further promotion and integration of gender equality. Her presentation was followed with comments by Ms. Mahnaz Afkhami, founder and president of the Women’s Learning Partnership for Rights, Development, and Peace.Ms. Mahboubeh Abbasgholizadeh is an Iranian women’s rights activist, journalist, and filmmaker. She is a founding member of the Stop Stoning Forever campaign, the Iranian Women’s Charter Movement, the Meydan Zanan (Women’s Field) Network, an interactive website aimed at encouraging dialogue among diverse activist groups. She is also a member of the Institute for Women’s Empowerment (IWE). She has served as director of the Non-Governmental Organisation Training Centre (NGOTC), an organization that has trained women’s groups throughout Iran, and the Association of Women Writers and Journalists. Additionally, she has served as editor-in-chief of Farzaneh Women’s Studies Journal and contributes regularly to the publications Sharg (East) and Zanan (Women).
#From the Grassroots to the Nation: Promoting Women’s Rights and Political Participation in Cameroon##From the Grassroots to the Nation: Promoting Women’s Rights and Political Participation in Cameroon from National Endowment for Democracy on Vimeo.Download Summary Statement ::PDFThis event featured:Ms. Anne-Stella Fomumbod Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellow Watch Video :: VISITWith comments by:Ms. Michelle Bekkering Women’s Democracy Network International Republican Institute Watch Video ::VISITIn emerging democracies such as Cameroon, women’s rights and political participation are critical indicators of a country’s quality of governance. While Cameroon has ratified nearly all conventions protecting women’s rights, and international, national, and grassroots initiatives have sought to improve their status, Cameroonian women still suffer from human rights abuses and are visibly excluded from political and economic life at both the community and national level. Grassroots governance systems, customary laws, poverty, HIV/AIDS, and women’s attitudes all contribute to persistent male dominance in Cameroonian society. Presidential, parliamentary, and municipal elections are coming up in 2011–2013, but it is likely that women will remain grossly excluded from ongoing voter registration and political participation. In her presentation, award-winning development practitioner Ms. Anne-Stella Fomumbod examined  the socio-cultural impediments to women’s rights, and presented the experiences and achievements of her organization, Interfaith Vision Foundation Cameroon (IVFCam), in overcoming these barriers to promote women’s rights and political participation in Cameroon. Her presentation was followed by comments by Ms. Michelle Bekkering.Ms. Anne-Stella Fomumbod is founder and chief executive officer of Interfaith Vision Foundation, a nongovernmental organization based in Cameroon’s Northwest region that works with community-based organizations to promote human rights and democracy at the grassroots level. An advocate for women’s rights, she has successfully lobbied for the passage of laws protecting the rights of women, particularly widows, in local communities, such as the Metta Charter on Widowhood (January 2010). For her efforts to promote gender equality in local governance and development processes, she received the Women’s World Summit Foundation’s 2010 Prize for Women’s Creativity in Rural Life, as well as a National Award for the Advancement of Women in 2004. Ms. Fomumbod had been a professional teacher for twenty-two years and retired from her work as Regional Pedagogic Inspector of secondary education in order to take up development work.Ms. Michelle Bekkering is Director of the Women’s Democracy Network at the International Republican Institute.
#The Role of Youth in Strengthening the Democratic Transition in Nigeria##FeaturingKingsley N. T. Bangwell Founder and Project Director, Youngstars Development Initiative (Youngstars Foundation)Moderated byOge Okoye Onubogu Program Officer, West AfricaKingsley N. T. Bangwell is the founder and project director of longtime NED partner Younstars Development Initiative, a youth training and advocacy organization based in Jos, Plateau State which has worked with thousands of rural and urban youth in Nigeria. Youngstars Foundation recently produced a short video with support from the National Democratic Institute and USAID, titled “My Vote Fit Change Naija” which depicted how voting for democratic leaders has a direct impact on the quality of life for Nigerians. United States Secretary of State, Hilary Clinton, tweeted her support for the video via twitter, and the video itself reached over 10,000 hits on Youtube.Kingsley Bangwell is a recipient of the 2008 Ashoka fellowship, a service award for social entrepreneurs from around the world. He is also a 2009 recipient of the Young Global Leaders award, a three year award given to individuals below the age of 40 who are significantly impacting their countries in the business, governance, and economic sectors. He was presented with this award at the 2009 World Economic Forum in Jordan. Bangwell was elected as Architect of the Future by Waldzell Institute in 2009, and in 2010 he was the first Nigerian elected as a member into the Bretton Woods Committee.
#Côte d’Ivoire:  Prospects for Democracy and Reconciliation##FeaturingCharles Djrekpo NDI Resident Director in Côte d’IvoireModerated byDave Peterson Senior Director, NED Africa ProgramHon. Charles Djrekpo is currently NDI’s Resident Director in Côte d’Ivoire, where he has managed efforts to mitigate election-related conflict, including programs with the country’s political parties, women and youth leaders.  After a brief absence during  Côte d’Ivoire’s recent political crisis, he has returned to Abidjan to resume NDI’s activities to promote national reconciliation and political reform, including technical assistance to Ivoirian political leaders to draft new legislation.  He is an outstanding analyst of Ivoirian politics.Charles has also served as legislative program director for NDI in Mauritania.  He has held elected office in Benin, including as a member of the National Assembly and of his region’s General Council.  He played a lead technical role in organizing Benin’s 1991 legislative and presidential elections, and in 2001 was elected President of the National Independent Electoral Commission of Benin.  He has 20 years of experience working to improve public law and good governance throughout West Africa.
#Making Gender Quotas Work: A Case for Doubling the Seats in the Indian Parliament##Making Gender Quotas Work: A Case for Doubling the Seats in the Indian Parliament from National Endowment for Democracy on Vimeo. View Presentation ::PDFFeaturingDr. Medha Nanivadekar Reagan-Fascell Democracy FellowWith comments byDr. Karen O’Connor (watch remarks) American UniversityIn India, quotas have been hailed as an essential mechanism to ensure representation of disadvantaged groups in the workplace, educational institutions, and government.  In 1993, a 33 percent quota for women was introduced into local government, and three years later the Women’s Reservation Bill proposed similar quotas in Parliament and state legislatures. While this Bill has remained engulfed in bitter controversy for the last fifteen years, nearly ten states have adopted fifty-percent women’s local quotas, and two constitutional amendments have been introduced in Parliament for reserving “not less than half” of local government seats for women, which would unfairly impact male representation. In her presentation, Dr. Medha Nanivadekar examined the contradiction between an excess of quotas for women at the local level and their deficit at the state and national levels. She argued that equal access to power at the highest levels would not only boost perceptions of women’s political power but would ultimately result in reduced individual vulnerability to gender-based violence and discrimination. Dr. Nanivadekar put forth a win-win formula to ensure equal gender representation without reducing male membership in the Indian Parliament. Her presentation was followed by comments by Dr. Karen O’Connor.Dr. Medha Nanivadekar is director of the Center for Women’s Studies at Shivaji University in Kolhapur, India, and the president of Bharatiya Stree Shakti, an Indian women’s organization. A staunch proponent of women’s equal representation in politics, Dr. Nanivadekar testified before India’s parliamentary committee in 1996, to support a women’s reservation bill proposing a 33 percent quota for women in parliament, and again in 2008, to propose a formula to resolve the deadlock over the controversial bill. In addition to her work as a United Nations Expert on Women and Politics and as the gender expert on several committees for the government of India, she has authored a number of research reports, articles and book chapters on women and politics.Dr. Karen O’Connor is Jonathan N. Helfat Distinguished Professor of Political Science at American University, as well as founder of the Women and Politics Institute.
#How (Not) to Write an African Constitution: Reflections on Ghana’s Current Constitutional Review##How (Not) to Write an African Constitution: Reflections on Ghana’s Current Constitutional Review from National Endowment for Democracy on Vimeo.FeaturingH. Kwasi Prempeh Reagan-Fascell Democracy FellowWith comments byLarry Diamond (watch remarks) Stanford UniversityModerated byMarc F. Plattner International Forum for Democratic StudiesGhana has long been hailed as a democratic success story—a model for other African countries seeking to curtail executive power and install rule of law. After nearly two decades of successful multi-party democracy, Ghana is in the midst of a constitutional review process that aims to further strengthen its political institutions. However, presidential dominance remains a problem, and the country’s current review process lacks both the urgency and the consensus seen recently in Kenya. Many Ghanaians indeed question the need to reform a constitution that has seemingly served Ghana so well. Others who are critical of excess executive power argue that the constitution’s current defects are the result of flawed design, not implementation. In his presentation, H. Kwasi Prempeh assessed these viewpoints and explained how conventional approaches to constitution-writing in Africa have left in place some of the most problematic features of its authoritarian past. Larry Diamond provided comments.H. Kwasi Prempeh is a professor at Seton Hall University School of Law, where he teaches courses in constitutional law and comparative constitutionalism. A staunch proponent of liberal policy and legal reform in Ghana, he previously served as director of legal policy and governance at the Ghana Center for Democratic Development, the country’s leading liberal-democratic think tank, based in Accra. Professor Prempeh is now a member of the Center’s board of directors and coedits its quarterly Democracy Watch. A noted expert on democratization and constitutionalism in Africa, he has authored numerous articles for peer-reviewed journals and law reviews, including the Journal of Democracy, the International Journal of Constitutional Law, and the Tulane Law Review. During his fellowship, Professor Prempeh plans to undertake a comprehensive review of Ghana’s constitutional system and legal traditions in order to identify ways in which contemporary constitutional design and the existing regime of laws have been complicit in the entrenchment of the country’s imperial presidency.Larry Diamond is director of Stanford University’s Center on Democracy, Development, and the Rule of Law, where he is also a senior fellow at the Freeman Spogli Institute and the Hoover Institution and a professor of political science and sociology. View Presentation Summary
#The 2012 Mexican Elections: A New Test for Democracy##Dr. Luis Carlos Ugalde – The 2012 Mexican Elections: A New Test for Democracy from National Endowment for Democracy on Vimeo.Watch all videos from this eventView PresentationFeaturingDr. Luis Carlos Ugalde Reagan-Fascell Democracy FellowWith comments byDr. Santiago Levy Algazi (watch remarks) Inter-American Development BankModerated byDr. Diego Abente-Brun International Forum for Democratic StudiesAs Mexicans prepare to go to the polls next year to elect a new president, memories of Mexico’s 2006 presidential election remain vividly in the background. In 2006, Mexican political institutions were challenged when President Felipe Calderon defeated challenger Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador by a razor-thin margin of just 0.56 percent. Calderon’s narrow victory and Lopez Obrador’s persistent refusal to accept the results ignited a prolonged period of post-electoral conflict. The 2012 presidential election, which is likely to be hard-fought and closely contested, will pose a new test for Mexican democracy at a time of increased violence due to drug trafficking. Dr. Luis Carlos Ugalde, former president of Mexico’s Federal Electoral Commission (IFE) in 2006, put the upcoming Mexican elections in historical perspective and to offered recommendations on how to strengthen Mexico’s evolving democracy. Dr. Santiago Levy Algazi provided comments.Over the past twenty years, Dr. Luis Carlos Ugalde has combined a distinguished academic career with high-ranking positions within the Mexican government. From 2003 to 2007, he served as the president of Mexico’s Federal Electoral Commission (IFE), presiding over the country’s contested 2006 presidential election. He has taught at various universities across Mexico and the United States, including the Instituto Tecnológico Autónomo de México (ITAM), the Center for Economic Research and Teaching (CIDE) in Mexico City, Harvard University, Georgetown University, and American University. He has authored numerous publications, including As I Lived It: A Testimony of the Most Competitive Election in the Modern History of Mexico (2008, in Spanish) and The Mexican Congress: Old Player, New Power (Center for Strategic and International Studies, 2000). During his fellowship, Dr. Ugalde is comparing his experience during Mexico’s 2006 presidential election with other cases of contested elections, in order to identify factors that increase the likelihood of post-electoral conflict in both new and consolidated democracies.Dr. Santiago Levy Algazi is the vice president for sectors and knowledge at the Inter-American Development Bank.
#Ukraine’s Convoluted Transition: Between Dysfunctional Democracy and Unconsolidated Authoritarianism##Highlights – Mykola Riabchuk Presentation from National Endowment for Democracy on Vimeo.Watch all videos from this eventView Presentation :: PDFFeaturingMr. Mykola Riabchuk Reagan-Fascell Democracy FellowWith comments byDr. Nadia Diuk National Endowment for DemocracyTwenty years after Ukraine emerged as an independent state from the shackles of the collapsed Soviet Union, it still remains stuck in a grey zone between late communist authoritarianism and full-fledged democracy. Neither a success story nor a complete failure, the hybrid regime in Ukraine seems to fluctuate between two political syndromes that Thomas Carothers has described as “feckless pluralism” and “dominant power politics.”Since 1991, political developments have brought no real change in terms of institutional efficiency, governmental accountability, or political participation. State institutions remain dysfunctional and corrupt, while Ukrainians remain highly distrustful of political leaders and largely alienated from the political process beyond voting. This deficient democracy evokes nostalgia for “law and order,” facilitating the victory of authoritarian leaders in essentially free and fair elections.In his presentation, award-winning Ukrainian journalist and scholar Mr. Mykola Riabchuk examined the main causes of the country’s incoherent development and explored the potential to break this vicious circle and push the stalled transition towards democratic consolidation. Dr. Nadia Diuk provided comments.Mr. Mykola Riabchuk is a senior research fellow at the Ukrainian Center for Cultural Studies in Kyiv and co-founder and a member of the editorial board of Krytyka, a leading Ukrainian intellectual magazine. An activist in the underground movement of the 1970s, he gained prominence as a literary critic and publicist during the perestroika period in the 1980s. He has published six books and numerous articles on civil society, national identity, and political transition in the post-Soviet states, primarily in Ukraine. He was awarded an Antonovych Prize in 2003 for outstanding achievements in the humanities and a Polish-Ukrainian Capitula Award in 2002 for his contribution to Polish-Ukrainian reconciliation.Dr. Nadia Diuk is vice president for Africa, Latin America, and Eurasia programs at the National Endowment for Democracy.
#Defending Press Freedom in the 21st Century##FeaturingWael Abbas Egyptian Journalist and BloggerMariane Pearl Journalist and author; widow of Daniel PearlIrina Bokova Director General, UNESCORepresentative Adam Schiff U.S. House of RepresentativesJoined byEsther Brimmer Assistant Secretary of State, International Organization AffairsMichael Posner  Assistant Secretary of State, Democracy, Human Rights, and LaborModerated byDavid Killion U.S. Ambassador to UNESCOHosted byCarl Gershman President, National Endowment for DemocracyThis event was organized in coordination with the World Press Freedom Day conference that took place in Washington, DC, May 1-3, 2011 at the Newseum and National Press Club. This was the first time since World Press Freedom Day was established nearly 20 years ago that the United States has hosted the celebration. The event marked the first anniversary of the Daniel Pearl Press Freedom Act, which calls for a focus on freedom of the press issues in the State Department’s annual human rights reports on countries. The discussion focused on the important role independent media play in democratic and economic development worldwide, with an emphasis on the innovative media platforms that are democratizing how people voice their opinions and access information – and how these must be protected.The Congressional Caucus for Freedom of the Press was organized in May 2006.  The bipartisan, bicameral caucus is co-chaired by Representatives Adam Schiff (D-CA) and Michael Pence (R-IN), and Richard Lugar (R-IN).  It aims to advance press freedom by creating a forum to combat and condemn media censorship and the persecution of journalists worldwide.The Center for International Media Assistance, an initiative of the National Endowment for Democracy, brings together a broad range of media experts with the goal of strengthening the support for and improving the effectiveness of media assistance programs by providing information, building networks, and conducting research on the indispensable role independent media play in creating sustainable democracies around the world.
#World Press Freedom Day 2011##Every year, May 3rd is a date which celebrates the fundamental principles of press freedom; to evaluate press freedom around the world, to defend the media from attacks on their independence and to pay tribute to journalists who have lost their lives in the exercise of their profession.Hosted by the United States for the first time in 2011, this event focused on media freedom in the digital age.  NED’s Center for International Media Assistance played a leading role in organizing the UNESCO sponsored event, and many NED grantees and partners were on hand to share their experience, network, and learn from the 800+ participants who gathered at the Newseum and the National Press Club May 1-3.Read NED President Carl Gershman’s remarks from the opening ceremony.Google hosted a reception for journalists and other attendees on the rooftop terrace of the Newseum.Dana Liebelson Republished with permission from IJNet, the international journalists’ network :: visitAttendance for the World Press Freedom Day conference in Washington this week was the largest in the event’s almost 20-year history, with more than 800 participants.Sponsored by a variety of organizations, the World Press Freedom Day global conference concluded yesterday with a closing ceremony honoring jailed Iranian journalist, Ahmad Zeidabadi. New media innovators, policymakers and press freedom advocates from around the world attended the conference events.“Even as we celebrate innovations that make information easier to share, we are reminded that in many places around the world, journalists are still targeted for harassment and abuse,” said U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton in a statement.This was the first year that World Press Freedom Day events have been held in the United States. Two press freedom organizations released reports during the events: Freedom House unveiled its 2011 Freedom of the Press Map and the Committee to Protect Journalists released a report on new tools governments are using for censorship.The theme of this year’s conference was new media in the 21st century. To honor this theme, participants at the event took part in an online conversation on press freedom. Tweets were marked with the hashtags, #WPFD and #PressFreedom and participants were encouraged to share the event on other social media platforms.The United Nations Education, Scientific, and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) organizes World Press Freedom Day commemorations to celebrate the fundamental principles of press freedom; to evaluate press freedom; to defend the media from attacks on their independence and to pay tribute to journalists who have lost their lives in the line of duty. For complete information on the 2011 World Press Freedom Day global conference in Washington DC, see www.wpfd2011.org (in English).Read all of IJNet’s coverage of World Press Freedom Day 2011 :: moreTo see the full agenda, visit the WPFD 2011 website :: VISITFor additional video coverage of the WPFD conference visit: www.vimeo.com/WPFD2011See the original press release :: VISIT
#Youth Activism and Protest in the North and South Caucasus##FeaturingGregory Shvedov Editor in Chief of Caucasian Knot (Russia)Adnan Hajizada Youth activist (Azerbaijan by Skype)Emin Milli Founder of Alumni Network (Azerbaijan by Skype)Moderated byNadia Diuk National Endowment for DemocracyAgainst the backdrop of the political upheaval in the Middle East, the conflicts of the North Caucasus and the social protests in Azerbaijan have focused attention on the growing role and significance of youth across the region.  In the North Caucasus, the insurgency and growing religious radicalism draw most of their support from the youth.  In Azerbaijan, youth participation in politics has been controlled and marginalized, leading to many liberal minded youth choosing to emigrate or opting to pursue private lives.The new generation that has come of age in the Caucasus since the collapse of the Soviet Union is struggling to establish its identity in the context of a very limited, and continually narrowing political space.   The mixture of traditional cultures and Soviet norms that shaped their parents’ generation has eroded.  While the new environment provides a greater measure of personal freedom and some opportunities for self expression, the space for political or social activism is closing up.  How do young people view their role in society in Azerbaijan and the North Caucasus?  Is the religious radicalization that has occurred in the North Caucasus predominantly a youth phenomenon? How do young people in the Caucasus learn civic values?  How do they participate in politics?  What do they expect from the future?  To respond to these and other questions, we welcomed three eminent panelists.Gregory Shvedov is the editor‐in‐chief of the 24/7 Internet news agency Caucasian Knot (full Russian version: www.kavkaz-uzel.ru; and short English version: www.caucasianknot.info), which covers events in each of the 20 regions of Russia’s North Caucasus, the South Federal District, and the independent South Caucasus. He also serves as director of the Information Agency MEMO.RU, which was founded in 2002 to mobilize support for activism through social marketing.  In addition to the Caucasian Knot and MEMO.RU, Mr. Shvedov serves on the board of the International Memorial Society, for which he was previously responsible for coordinating interregional cooperation between 80 branches.Adnan Hajizada is a blogger and one of the founders of the OL! Azerbaijani Youth Movement, an initiative focusing on the education and development of Azerbaijani youth. He has been a member of the movement’s executive board and has served as its external affairs coordinator. He is well-known internationally for his YouTube videos, some of which are aimed at educating foreigners about conditions in Azerbaijan. He was arrested in 2009 on fabricated charges after posting a satirical video online and was sentenced to two years in prison. He was released in November 2010 after his imprisonment was widely criticized by the international community.Emin Milli is an Azerbaijani blogger. In 2009, he was sentenced to prison for two and a half years on fabricated charges of hooliganism. Amnesty International declared him a prisoner of conscience and he was conditionally released in November 2010. He has worked as a coordinator for the International Republican Institute in Azerbaijan and as a director of the Friedrich Ebert Foundation. As a consultant and legal expert, he advised the Council of Europe on more than 40 cases of political prisoners in Azerbaijan (2002 -2004), many of whom have been released following pressure from the Council of Europe. He also founded the Alumni Network, a social networking group for Azerbaijani youth.
#Corruption in Angola: An Impediment to Democracy##Highlights – Rafael Marques de Morais Presentation from National Endowment for Democracy on Vimeo.Watch all videos from this eventView Presentation :: PDFFeaturingMr. Rafael Marques de Morais (watch presentation) Fellow, International Forum for Democratic StudiesWith comments byDr. Peter Lewis (watch remarks) Johns Hopkins UniversityWatch the Q & A sessionDuring Angola’s civil wars, the government consistently pointed to corruption as the second major destructive force in the country, after the conflict itself. Ironically, in time of peace, corruption has become the nation’s defining governance issue. Top government officials are benefiting from blatant, often lawful mechanisms of enrichment, including the appropriation of state assets through unconcealed privatization; the assignment of business contracts to companies owned and often managed by state officials; and pressures on multinational corporations to form joint-ventures with military generals as a condition of foreign investment. While billions of dollars pour into the personal bank accounts of corrupt officials, ordinary Angolans live in extreme poverty, with 70 percent of the population surviving on less than two dollars a day. Notably, these forms of corruption are practiced within the country’s evolving legal framework, which continues to consolidate executive power, promote privatization of the state, and inhibit freedom of the press and civil society.In his presentation, journalist and activist Mr. Rafael Marques de Morais examined the ways in which institutionalized corruption affects the rule of law, democratization, and the functionality of the Angolan state, while describing the role that the U.S. government, American businesses, and think tanks can play in holding the government accountable. His presentation was followed by comments by Dr. Peter Lewis.Mr. Rafael Marques de Morais is an award-winning Angolan journalist and writer with a special interest in political economy and human rights. In 2009, he founded the watchdog website “Maka,” dedicated to exposing corruption in his country. Mr. Morais has authored numerous human rights reports on the diamond trade, including Harvesting Hunger in Angola’s Diamond Fields (2008), Operation Kissonde: The Diamonds of Misery and Humiliation (2006), and Lundas: The Stones of Death (2005), coauthored with Rui Campos.  In recognition of his extraordinary efforts on behalf of human rights, Mr. Morais was awarded the Train Foundation’s Civil Courage Prize in 2006 and the National Association of Black Journalists’ Percy Qoboza Award for Outstanding Courage in 2000.Dr. Peter M. Lewis is an associate professor and director of the African studies program at Johns Hopkins University’s School of Advanced International Studies.
#Options for a New Haiti##On April 28, 2011, the National Endowment for Democracy partnered with the Americas Program of the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS) organized a one-day conference on Options for a New Haiti. Panelists discussed the recent elections, developments in the donor community, and the role of the private sector in rebuilding Haiti. Abdonel Doudou, founder of the NED grantee Jurimédia, addressed the challenges the new Administration faces.Mr. Abdonel Doudou is a jurist and community organizer with more than ten years of experience in development and human rights programs. He has coordinated field activities throughout Haiti on matters regarding community development and human rights, and has been involved particularly in child rights advocacy, HIV/AIDS prevention, advocacy on migration issues and anti-trafficking in persons programs with several international NGOs. In 2001, he founded a local civic organization, Jurimédia, now a NED grantee. The PowerPoint presentation he gave at the conference is available here.Video from the conference is available at the CSIS website. :: moreWatch this Democracy Story about NED grantee Fondation Espoir in Port-au-Prince. :: moreRead more about NED grantees in Haiti. :: more8:30-9:00 a.m. – Registration and Continental Breakfast9:00-9:30 a.m. – Opening Remarks: Moving Haiti Forward in 20119:30-10:45 a.m. – Session I – Governance: Sharing Power and Building Trust11:00-12:15 p.m. – Session II – The Donor Community:  Balancing Capacity and Needs12:30-1:30 p.m. – Luncheon keynote: Can the Private Sector Rebuild Haiti?1:30-2:15 p.m. – Session III – Building Back Better: Innovation and New Infrastructure2:30-3:15 p.m. – Session IV – Private Investment and the Haitian Economy3:15-3:30 p.m. – Closing Remarks and Thank You
#Miriam Lanskoy Remarks at Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission Hearing#April 18, 2011#Miriam LanskoyDirector, Russia and Eurasia National Endowment for DemocracyTom Lantos Human Rights CommissionI am very grateful to the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission for convening this very important hearing. The Commission sheds light on some of the most difficult human rights issues and gives a voice to activists at risk. We at NED have a long relationship with the Commission and appreciate this opportunity to speak on human rights abuses in the North Caucasus.The National Endowment for Democracy (NED) is a private, nonprofit foundation dedicated to the growth and strengthening of democratic institutions around the world.  We have a particularly strong program in Chechnya and the North Caucasus, where we support 14 local organizations working in every republic in the region.  In addition, we support Russia’s premier human rights organizations, Moscow Helsinki Group, Za Prava Cheloveka, and Memorial, which bring problems in the North Caucasus to national and international attention.  We support efforts of European partners, such as Civil Rights Defenders’ Stockholm Process, which brings together local, national, and international human rights organizations to coordinate advocacy strategies and provide support for activists at risk.  Unfortunately, over the last two years we have had to make many special arrangements to mitigate the dangers associated with this work.The situation became particularly acute in 2009, when eight activists were killed. One such victim was Umar Izrailov, who was killed in Vienna. He had a case pending at the European Court for Human Rights against the Chechen president, Ramzan Kadyrov.  Umar’s father, Ali Izrailov, who has shown tremendous courage in continuing to challenge Kadyrov in the courts, is speaking later on this panel.  Another victim was Natalya Estemirova, a researcher in the Memorial office in Chechnya, who was killed because of her work on human rights in Chechnya.  Following that tragedy, the office of Memorial in Chechnya was closed and all the local staff members were temporarily relocated to ensure their safety.  They have been able to resume their work recently, but only in a very limited capacity, about which Dokku Itslaev can speak later in the panel.These activists promote the observance of human rights, report on abuses, and provide legal assistance.   By working in the most dangerous circumstances, despite tremendous government pressure and at great personal risk, they maintain a link between the North Caucasus and the outside world and provide reassurance to others that in the end justice will prevail.  This reassurance—that fairness can be obtained through due process of the law—is crucial to stemming the growing tide of extremism in the region.This hearing poses some very important questions.   Are Russia’s policies in the North Caucasus leading to greater radicalization and greater incidence of terrorism?  Are widespread human rights abuses by the Russian military and law enforcement, including killings, disappearances, and torture, contributing to the spread of the conflict and the radicalization of the population?  I think that this is clearly the case.I recently published a book called The Chechen Struggle: Independence Won and Lost.  It was co-authored with Ilyas Akhmadov, who was the foreign minister under President Aslan Maskhadov from 1999-2005.  We tell the story of the Chechen quest for independence and describe the relationships and competitions among different factions within the Chechen resistance.  The book traces the fragmentation and radicalization of the resistance, and the spread of the conflict to other parts of the North Caucasus.This radicalization did not happen overnight and it did not happen in a vacuum. The growth in terrorism was a result of the violence and impunity of the second Chechen war. The moderates, such as Akhmadov and Maskhadov, were making the argument that the Chechens should abide by the Geneva Conventions and other international norms, and eventually international institutions would bring pressure to bear on Russia to stop the war. But, despite reams of documentation of abuses against civilians, this simply did not happen.  Russia would not be held accountable.  The radicals argue that all the efforts of the moderates, the offers of peace talks and overtures to the West, were futile—they were signs of weakness.   They advocate that, instead of trying to play by the rules, the Chechens should use every available means, including terrorism. This lesson is being applied now throughout the North Caucasus.The Russian counterterrorist policies of the last decade have not worked.  The most intense period of terrorism came as a result of the Second Chechen War. It started with the Nord-Ost hostage-taking in November 2002, which was followed by several suicide bombings in 2003 and 2004 and the Beslan school hostage-taking in September 2004.  There was a relative lull following Beslan, until the Russian invasion of Georgia in August 2008.  Since then, according to every available set of data, (including official figures) the insurgency has been spreading geographically and claiming an increasing number of victims.Russia has tried many different policies to pacify this region: waging a war, co-opting local elites, engaging in public works projects, manipulating the boundaries of the federal districts, replacing governors, and killing extremists. Neither Putin’s approach of total force nor Medvedev’s line of administrative adjustments and social spending has achieved the desired results.It is a mistake to see Chechnya and the North Caucasus as a local front in a global war. Even though the religious radicals have gained the upper hand within the resistance, nationalism remains very strong.  Local and national motivations are usually dominant.  For instance, the siege of the school in Beslan in North Ossetia, the most awful act of terrorism in the North Caucasus, was related to the Osset-Ingush conflict, the context being a very local and specific conflict over Prigorodnyi Rayon.   That conflict was also the context for a bombing of a market in Vladikavkaz in September 2010, which claimed over 200 lives, but made very few headlines.    Most acts of terrorism related to the North Caucasus have obvious domestic causes grounded in local abuses and grievances and have no known international links; North Caucasus terrorism seems to be homegrown.The centerpiece of Russian counterinsurgency policy in Chechnya is the Chechen president, Ramzan Kadyrov, who was appointed to this office by then-President Vladimir Putin in 2007 and reappointed by President Medvedev in 2011.  The Russian federal government has vested Kadyrov with a monopoly on political power, contributed substantial budget resources to his reconstruction projects, and given him leeway to operate with a great deal of independence. Kadyrov and his forces, which are, nominally, divisions of federal ministries, operate with total impunity; their tactics have included disappearances, torture, humiliation and intimidation.  Kadyrov himself was awarded the Hero of Russia medal, which is the highest honor reserved for acts of particular bravery.At the same time, Kadyrov has instituted a personality cult, recently making the anniversary of his father’s death a day of national mourning.  He has also sought to promote in Chechnya a set of religious norms that are alien to the region.  As part of his current “modesty campaign,” Kadyrov has spoken approvingly of honor killings, is requiring women to cover their hair in public, and advocates seizing cell phones from young women, among other measures that are documented in considerable detail in a recent Human Rights Watch Report.  As a result, while Chechnya remains in a legal and formal sense a part of the Russian Federation, it is simultaneously drifting further away from Russian legal and cultural norms.In addition to extensive reporting by independent observers over the years, there are two very important court cases currently underway that compile a great deal of evidence on Kadyrov’s wrongdoings.  The first is a case in Vienna, in which three Chechen refugees are standing trial for the killing of Umar Israilov; the second is a case in Moscow, in which Oleg Orlov, the director of Memorial, is on trial for criminal libel for having said that Kadyrov is responsible for the murder of Natalya Estemirova.  The cases are ongoing and deserve continued attention.In Vienna the prosecution contends that Kadyrov and his government maintain a network of agents around the Chechen Cultural Center, who monitor and control the Chechen refugees in the area.  One such agent told the Viennese police that he had been instructed by Kadyrov to persuade Umar Israilov to drop his case in the European Court of Human Rights. The prosecution links Kadyrov to the murder suspects and argues that they were instructed to kidnap Israilov and forcibly return him to Chechnya.  According to the prosecution, they shot and killed Israilov because they couldn’t force him into a waiting car, as had been planned.  It’s a sad irony that the last time I saw Anna Politkovskaya, at the NED’s conference in Stockholm, she spoke passionately about the need to protect claimants and witnesses in ECHR cases.  Anna Politkovskaya was an investigative journalist who specialized in Chechnya; incurred the wrath of Kadyrov for her forceful reporting; and was murdered in 2006.In Moscow, the criminal libel case against Oleg Orlov has been ongoing for over a year.  The case is extremely important because it presents, in its most pure form, the question of Kadyrov’s impunity.  Kadyrov has dropped similar charges that he had filed against Ludmilla Aleekseeva and Novaya Gazeta journalists, but continues to press the case against Orlov and Memorial.  Orlov’s defense has entered into the court record numerous instances in which Kadyrov bragged publicly about his participation in other killings and had insulted and belittled Estemirova (his personal animosity for her dates back to an incident in 2004, when Kadyrov took a swing at Politkovskaya and Estemirova stood in his way); Orlov’s defense has also cited both the fact that Kadyrov’s closest associate, Delimkhanov, characterized  human rights activists as doing the “work of the devil” on television in the days prior to her killing and that another Chechen official warned Natalya’s Memorial colleagues that she was in danger.  Orlov has explained repeatedly that what he seeks is a full investigation into the possibility of Kadyrov’s complicity in this murder.Indeed, it seems rather odd that Anna Politkovskaya was murdered, and Umar Israilov was murdered, and Natalya Estemirova was murdered—and the only person on trial in Russia is Oleg Orlov.20 years ago, delegates from 80+ counties founded the World Movement for Democracy...He addressed the struggle for democracy and the rule...The National Endowment for Democracy is proud to honor...Burundian human rights defender Faustin Ndikumana will...
#African Charter on Democracy, Elections and Governance – An Update##Patrick Mpedzisi – Remarks from National Endowment for Democracy on Vimeo.Hannah Forster – Remarks from National Endowment for Democracy on Vimeo.FeaturingHannah Forster Chair, African Democracy Forum (ADF)Patrick Mpedzisi Coordinator, African Democracy Forum (ADF)Moderated byDave Peterson Senior Director for Africa, National Endowment for DemocracyThe African Charter on Democracy, Elections and Governance has emerged as an important tool enabling African civil society to engage with government and citizens in pressing for political reform.  Panelists Hannah Forster and Patrick Mpedzisi discussed what progress the charter has made thus far, its potential for ratification, and whether it is making an impact on policy, changing the practice of governments, and mobilizing popular demand.Hannah Forster is the Executive Director of the African Centre for Democracy and Human Rights Studies in Gambia. Created by the Gambian government in 1989, the Center’s mission is to ensure respect for individual rights and freedoms through educational activities and publications, as provided in the Charter. In 2007, Ms. Forster was the first Gambian to receive the US Secretary of State’s International Women of Courage Award. She has also worked for the adoption of the Protocol on the Rights of Women in Africa of the African Charter on Human and Peoples’ Rights. Ms. Forster is the current Chairperson of the African Democracy Forum, a regional network affiliated with the World Movement for Democracy.Patrick Mpedzisi joined the ADF team in July 2010 after working for the Southern African Trust. Born in Lusaka, Zambia, Patrick brings over 11 years of experience in development focusing largely on governance and African integration.  Patrick has worked in South Africa, Zimbabwe, and Kenya. Upon graduating in Law at the University of Zimbabwe and doing an internship with the Zimbabwe Election Support Network, he moved to Kenya to assist with convening the first ever African Youth Parliament (AYP). Patrick later became the coordinator of AYP, after which he was seconded to the Kenyan Ministry of Youth Affairs as an advisor and liaison person for UNDP. He then joined the Eastern and Southern African NGO forum MWENGO as the Research & Development officer in Harare. Patrick is a trustee for the African Youth Trust and a member of the NEPAD Civil Society Think Tank. He has been a trainer, facilitator, and consultant to various processes and institutions including NEPAD, the AU, UNECA, the Commonwealth Youth Programme, Peace Child International, and the British Council.The World Movement for Democracy recently interviewed Mr. Mpedzisi to discuss the Charter. The interview is available online here.
#Foreign Policies of Emerging-Market Democracies: What Role for Democracy and Human Rights?##Download Summary  ::pdfThe rapid growth of emerging powers in recent years has raised many questions about the future of global governance. A vital bloc within this group is that of the emerging-market democracies, the leading group of developing countries that are governed democratically. While much attention has been paid to how these powers influence the world economy, not enough consideration has been given to these powers’ foreign policies, including how they influence the advancement of human rights and democracy.On April 14 and 15, 2011, the Managing Global Order project at Brookings and the International Forum for Democratic Studies at the National Endowment for Democracy hosted a conference on the foreign policies of emerging-market democracies and their efforts to advance human rights and democracy. Leading experts on Brazil, India, Indonesia, South Africa, South Korea, Turkey, and multilateral affairs explored these countries’ strategies and tactics and made suggestions for U.S. policymakers.On April 15, Samantha Power, special advisor to the President and senior director for multilateral affairs and human rights at the National Security Council, provided commentary on the administration’s efforts to work with the emerging democracies.After each panel, panelists took audience questions.Thursday, April 142:00 p.m. – Welcome and Introductory RemarksTed Piccone Senior Fellow and Deputy Director, Foreign PolicyMarc Plattner Director, International Forum for Democratic Studies National Endowment for Democracy2:30 p.m. – Panel 1: IndiaModerator: Francine Frankel Professor and Founding Director, Center for the Study of Contemporary India, University of PennsylvaniaAuthor: Pratap Bhanu Mehta President, Center for Policy ResearchCommentator: Satu Limaye Director, East-West Center3:30 p.m. – Break3:45 p.m. – Panel 2: BrazilModerator: Diego Abente Deputy Director, International Forum for Democratic Studies National Endowment for DemocracyAuthor: Roberto Abdenur Former Brazilian Ambassador to U.SCommentator: Carlos Pereira Visiting Fellow, Foreign Policy, Global Economy and Development, Latin America Initiative4:45 p.m. – Panel 3: TurkeyModerator: Fiona Hill Director, Center on the United States and EuropeAuthor: Soli Ozel Professor, Istanbul Bilgi UniversityCommentator: Ömer Taşpınar Nonresident Senior Fellow, Foreign Policy, Center on the United States and EuropeFriday, April 159:00 a.m. – Panel 4: South AfricaModerator: Akwe Amosu Africa Advocacy Director Open Society Policy CenterAuthor: Moeletsi Mbeki Deputy Chairperson, South African Institute of International AffairsCommentator: Pauline Baker President, Fund for Peace10:00 a.m. – Break10:15 a.m. – Panel 5: IndonesiaModerator: Brian Joseph Senior Director, Asia and Multiregional Programs, National Endowment for DemocracyAuthor: Rizal Sukma Executive Director, Center for Strategic and International Studies, Jakarta, IndonesiaCommentator: Donald Emmerson Senior Fellow, Freeman Spogli Institute for International Studies, Stanford University11:15 a.m. – Panel 6: South KoreaModerator: Kongdan Oh Nonresident Senior Fellow, Foreign Policy, Center for Northeast Asian Policy StudiesAuthor: Youngshik Bong Senior Researcher, Asan Institute for Policy StudiesAuthor: Chaibong Hahm Director, Asan Institute for Policy StudiesCommentator: Scott Snyder Director, Center for U.S.-Korea Policy, The Asia Foundation12:15 p.m. – Lunch KeynoteIntroduction: Carl Gershman President, National Endowment for DemocracySamantha Power Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director, Office of Multilateral Affairs and Human Rights, National Security Council2:00 p.m. – Panel 7:Multilateral OrganizationsModerator: Richard Gowan Associate Director, Center on International CooperationAuthor: Ted Piccone Senior Fellow and Deputy Director, Foreign PolicyCommentator: Peggy Hicks Global Advocacy Director, Human Rights Watch3:00 p.m. – Break3:15 p.m. – Conclusion: Implications for the Future of Democracy and International PoliticsModerator: Larry Diamond Senior Fellow, Hoover Institution, Stanford UniversityThomas Carothers Vice President for Studies, Carnegie Endowment for International PeaceRobert Kagan Senior Fellow, Foreign Policy, Center on the United States and EuropeMoises Naim Senior Associate, Carnegie Endowment for International Peace
#Presidential Elections in Peru: Political Scenarios in a Tightening Race##Manuel Alcántara Political Science Professor at University of Salamanca, Visiting Fellow at the Kellogg Institute for International Studies, Notre Dame UniversityJavier La Rosa Board of Directors, Institute for Legal Defense (IDL), PeruMiriam Kornblith Director, Latin American and the Caribbean, NEDIntroductory Remarks byDavid Kramer Executive Director of Freedom House Freedom House and the National Endowment for Democracy (NED) held a series of round table discussions around the presidential elections that took place in Latin America during 2011.  This first event focused on the Peruvian elections scheduled for April 10th. The final weeks leading up to the elections were characterized by uncertainty, as polls showed a potentially fragmented incoming congress and a close race among the five presidential candidates vying to compete in a second-round runoff. The event discussed the likely scenarios and their implications for Peru’s democratic governance and human rights agenda.Manuel Alcántara is a renowned political scientist and scholar with over 24 years of research experience and numerous publications on parliamentary elites, political parties, and legislatures in Latin America. He is currently a Visiting Fellow at the Kellogg Institute of the University of Notre Dame and has been a political science professor at the University of Salamanca in Spain since 1993.Javier La Rosa is a lawyer and the Coordinator of the Life Justice Program at the Legal Defense Institute (IDL) of Peru, a civil society organization that promotes human rights, democracy and peace in Peru and in Latin America. He is also a professor at the Catholic University of Peru (PUCP) and author of several publications on conflict resolution, access to justice, and domestic violence.Miriam Kornblith is a Venezuelan Sociologist and Political Scientist. She developed her academic career as a professor and researcher at of the Institute of Political Studies at the Central University of Venezuela. Kornblith’s study of the contemporary Venezuelan political system spans constitutional reform, political institutions and parties and electoral processes, and has published extensively on those topics. From 1998 to 1999 she served as the Vice-President and member of the board of directors of National Electoral Council of Venezuela.  Currently, she is the Director of Latin American and Caribbean Program at the National Endowment for Democracy in Washington DC.David J. Kramer is the Executive Director of Freedom House and an Adjunct Professor at the Elliott School for International Affairs at The George Washington University. Prior to joining Freedom House, he was a Senior Transatlantic Fellow at the German Marshall Fund and served as Assistant Secretary of State for Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor (DRL) from March 2008 to January 2009. He has held several positions in the Department of State and various non-governmental organizations.
#Tunisia: On the Path to Democratic and Economic Reform##Nazeh Ben Ammar President, Tunisian American Chamber of Commerce (TACC)Radwan A. Masmoudi President, CSIDLaith Kubba Senior Director for MENA, NEDModerated byAbdulwahab Alkebsi Regional Director for Africa and the Middle East, CIPEThe Center for International Private Enterprise (CIPE), the National Endowment for Democracy (NED), and the Center for the Study of Islam and Democracy (CSID) co-hosted a discussion about current events in Tunisia. Nazeh Ben Ammar, President of the Tunisian American Chamber of Commerce (TACC) and members of the TACC delegation, Radwan A. Masmoudi, founder and president of CSID, who recently returned from a one-month trip to Tunisia, and Laith Kubba, senior director for the Middle East and North Africa at the NED spoke at the event.  Panelists discussed developments in the country and the prospects for democratic and market-oriented economic reforms. Abdulwahab Alkebsi, CIPE regional director for Africa and the Middle East, will moderate the discussion.The Center for International Private Enterprise (CIPE) strengthens democracy around the globe through private enterprise and market-oriented reform. CIPE is one of the four core institutes of the National Endowment for Democracy. Since 1983, CIPE has worked with business leaders, policymakers, and journalists to build the civic institutions vital to a democratic society. CIPE key program areas include anti-corruption, advocacy, business associations, corporate governance, democratic governance, access to information, the informal sector and property rights, and women and youth. Please feel free to contact us at forum@cipe.orgThe Center for the Study of Islam and Democracy (CSID) is a non-profit organization, based in Washington DC, dedicated to studying Islamic and democratic political thought and merging them into a modern Islamic democratic discourse. The organization was founded in March 1999 by a diverse group of academicians, professionals, and activists – both Muslim and non-Muslim- from around the USA who agree on the need for the study of and dissemination of reliable information on this complex topic.The National Endowment for Democracy (NED) is a private, nonprofit foundation dedicated to the growth and strengthening of democratic institutions around the world. Each year, NED makes more than 1,000 grants to support the projects of non-governmental groups abroad who are working for democratic goals in more than 90 countries. Since its founding in 1983, the Endowment has remained on the leading edge of democratic struggles everywhere, while evolving into a multifaceted institution that is a hub of activity, resources and intellectual exchange for activists, practitioners and scholars of democracy the world over. http://www.ned.org/aboutThe Tunisian American Chamber of Commerce (TACC) is a non-governmental organization created in 1989. It is a founding member of the MENA Amcham Council, which groups the chambers of commerce in the Middle East and North Africa.  TACC’s overall mission is to encourage connections between businessmen/businesswomen and companies in Tunisia and in the United States of America, to develop, in particular, economic and commercial exchanges between the two countries. TACC also carries out relevant economic activities such as leading business delegations to US fairs, organizing lobbying missions to Washington D.C. to meet with the US Executive and Legislative Branches and assisting in the program of US business delegations visiting Tunisia. Though TACC does not have the status of an AmCham, it enjoys the same privileges and benefits granted to AmChams as it meets the criterion stipulated by the US Chamber of Commerce, such as having an equal number of representatives of Tunisian and US companies, meaning a 50/50 parity, on its Board of Directors. http://www.tacc.org.tn/site/publish/content/default.asp?Lang=en
#A Not-So Rosy Result: Georgia Seven Years after the Rose Revolution##A Not-So Rosy Result: Georgia Seven Years after the Rose Revolution from National Endowment for Democracy on Vimeo. View Presentation :: PDFFeaturingDr. Levan Berdzenishvili Reagan-Fascell Democracy FellowWith comments byDr. Miriam Lanskoy National Endowment for Democracy Fueled by ideals of democracy and human rights, Georgia’s 2003 Rose Revolution initiated a period of hope and possibility unknown since the country gained independence following the collapse of the Soviet Union. This hope quickly turned into disillusionment, however, as many of the initial reforms proved unsuccessful.Lack of political freedom, a defunct parliament, high levels of unemployment, and tensions with Russia over disputed territories have continued to plague democratic development, causing Georgia to resemble more of a semi-autocracy than the mature democracy promised by the Rose revolutionaries. Georgia also remains no closer to fulfilling its aspirations of joining the European Union and NATO than it was before citizens took to the streets.The country’s authoritarian legacy, traditional mentality, and strong nationalist sentiments remain key obstacles to democratization, and neither the current government nor the Georgian Orthodox Church, the most trusted actor in Georgian society, seems able to promote democracy and good governance. Without efforts to consolidate democracy and realize the ideals that offered so much potential only seven years ago, Georgia risks a drift toward authoritarianism.In his presentation, Dr. Levan Berdzenishvili explained why Georgia has yet to realize many democratic aspirations—including fair elections, healthy opposition parties, and a strong civil society—and offered recommendations on how to make progress towards these goals. His presentation was followed by comments by Dr. Miriam Lanskoy.Dr. Levan Berdzenishvili is founding president of the Republican Institute, a think tank focusing on civic education and democracy building in Georgia. Following his involvement in the establishment of the underground Republican Party of Georgia in 1978, he spent three years in the Soviet gulag (1984–87). Before and after his arrest, he was a professor of classical philology at Tbilisi State University. In 2002, he helped to found the United National Movement of Georgia, along with future president Mikheil Saakashvili. From 2004 to 2008, he was a member of the Georgian parliament, serving on the Committee for Education, Science, Culture, and Sports. He is the author of several books, including Human Rights and Georgian Culture (2004, in Georgian). During his fellowship, Dr. Berdzenishvili is studying the historical and cultural challenges facing democracy in Georgia, including legacies from the Soviet era, the role of the Georgian Orthodox Church, and developments in modern political rhetoric.Dr. Miriam Lanskoy is director of the Russia and Eurasia program at NED.
#Violence, Criminality, and the Erosion of the Democratic State in Latin America##Violence, Criminality, and the Erosion of the Democratic State in Latin America from National Endowment for Democracy on Vimeo.View Presentation : PDFFeaturingDr. Arturo Alvarado Reagan-Fascell Democracy FellowWith comments byDr. Cynthia Arnson Woodrow Wilson International Center for ScholarsModerated byDr. Diego Abente International Forum for Democratic StudiesIncreasing trends of violence and criminality in fledgling Latin American democracies raise serious questions about the quality of democratic institutions and citizenship in the region. Violence, and particularly organized crime, not only limits opportunities for citizens to exercise civil and political rights, it also erodes these states’ ability to provide for the rule of law. Fundamentally, it undermines these states’ ability to wield an effective monopoly on use of force, in some cases resulting in deal-making between elected regimes and paramilitaries, mafias, and gangs. As a result, elected governments have become more vulnerable to threats and incentives from illegal actors and less responsive to the interests of their electoral constituencies. Focusing on survival at all costs, the ruling political elites have little incentive to increase military and police control, resulting in such high levels of societal insecurity that citizens are led to contract private security forces and broker their own deals with paramilitary and other criminal groups.Examining the relation between violence and democracy in Mexico, Brazil, and Colombia, Dr. Arturo Alvarado explored how democracy in each country has managed to remain resilient despite these states’ inability to control criminal uses of force.  He assessed the implications of current trends for policymakers’ approaches to peacemaking, the rule of law, and democratization. Dr. Cynthia Arnson provided comments.Dr. Arturo Alvarado Mendoza is professor in the department of sociology at El Colegio de México. He previously taught at Université Sorbonne-Nouvelle Paris III and Brown University. He has been a visiting fellow at the Program on Human Rights and Justice at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars. He is also a founder of Democracia, Derechos Humanos, y Seguridad, an NGO based in Mexico City. An expert on the rule of law in Mexico, Dr. Alvarado has held consulting positions with the United Nations Development Programme and the UN Crime Prevention Unit. He has authored numerous publications, including Towards National Security: Domestic Security and National Security in Mexico in the 21st Century (2010). During his fellowship, Dr. Alvarado plans to examine the role of violence in state formation in Latin America. Using Mexico, Brazil, and Colombia as case studies, he will investigate whether the rise of endemic violence in Latin America is challenging the consolidation of these democratic regimes.Dr. Cynthia Arnson is the director of the Latin America Program at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars.
#Bringing Human Rights Home: The Application of the European Convention in Russian Courts##Bringing Human Rights Home: The Application of the European Convention in Russian Courts from National Endowment for Democracy on Vimeo.FeaturingDr. Anton Burkov (Watch his interview with DemocracyVoices) Reagan-Fascell Democracy FellowWith comments byDr. William Pomeranz Deputy Director, Kennan Institute Woodrow Wilson International Center for ScholarsThe recent conviction of Mikhail Khodorkovsky underscores serious weaknesses in Russia’s rule of law, a problem President Dmitry Medvedev has characterized as “legal nihilism” and put at the forefront of the public agenda upon coming to power in 2008.  Despite this discouraging development, there are indications that limited progress is being made within the Russian Federation’s vast legal system.  These include ratification of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and participation in the European Court of Human Rights. Though Russian courts still do not consistently and competently apply the Convention in their judgments, Russian lawyers, particularly staff attorneys at NGOs, have begun successfully using the Convention when advocating for their clients—in doing so, they seek to bring human rights home and to transform the Russian legal system. What are the key obstacles to legal protection of human rights in Russia and how might the Convention be used as a force for the rule of law?  What can be done to strengthen the efforts of lawyers and NGOs working to bring human rights home? Russian lawyer Dr. Anton Burkov, who has brought numerous cases before Russian courts based on the Convention and European court case law, explored these questions and discussed the future of human rights-oriented law in Russia. Dr. William Pomeranz provided comments.Dr. Anton Burkov is a lawyer based in Yekaterinburg, Russia. An advocate of human rights, he has litigated cases in Russian courts, including the Supreme and Constitutional courts, and currently serves as a legal representative in a number of cases before the European Court of Human Rights. In 2001, he received the highest legal prize in Russia, the FEMIDA Award, “for contributions toward the creation of a democratic society and the development of state legal institutions.” An expert on the Russian legal system, he has authored numerous publications, including Convention for the Protection of Human Rights in Russian Courts (2010). He is a graduate of the University of Essex, where he was a Chevening Scholar, and the University of Cambridge, where he was a TNK-BP Kapitza Scholar. During his fellowship, Dr. Burkov is investigating the principles that the European Convention can contribute to Russian legislation and legal practice.Dr. William E. Pomeranz is the deputy director of the Kennan Institute at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars.View Presentation :: PDF
#New York Democracy Forum: Carl Gershman##Mr. Carl Gershman, President, National Endowment for Democracy, was the featured speaker at the 2011 John B. Hurford Memorial Lecture on March 1, 2011.  The Lecture was held at New York University and was cosponsored by NED and the Foreign Policy Association as part of the New York Democracy Forum.  Gershman addressed the topic “Democracy’s New Moment: A Forward Strategy for Advancing Freedom in the World“. Video Part 1Video Part 2Video Part 3For more information, visit the Foreign Policy Association website :: visitRead more about the New York Democracy Forum :: MORE
#From Postcard to Scorecard: Assessing the Quality of Democracy in Mauritius##Dr. Roukaya Kasenally – From Postcard to Scorecard: Assessing the Quality of Democracy in Mauritius from National Endowment for Democracy on Vimeo. View Presentation :: PDFFeaturingDr. Roukaya Kasenally Reagan-Fascell Democracy FellowModerated bySally Blair International Forum for Democratic StudiesThe island of Mauritius is perhaps best known as Mark Twain’s model for paradise (Following the Equator, 1897) and as the land of the long extinct dodo. Despite its small size and lack of natural resources, Mauritius has become the “star and key of the Indian Ocean,” touting excellent economic and democratic credentials since achieving independence in 1968.Unfortunately, the “star” is now losing some of its lustre, as Mauritius shows increasing signs of democratic stagnation, including the rise of ethnic and dynastic politics, the advent of political cronyism and patronage, and growing disenchantment and cynicism among Mauritian citizens towards the political class. In her presentation,Mauritian scholar and democracy activist Dr. Roukaya Kasenally examined the “picture-perfect model” of Mauritius and demonstrated the need to go beyond the numerical indicators that have consistently placed the small island as the best performer in Africa.Dr. Roukaya Kasenally is senior lecturer in media and political systems at the University of Mauritius. She is also co-founder and president of the Institute of Social Development and Peace, a think tank that has been influential in promoting dialogue and debate on the issues of human security, electoral reform, and poverty eradication in southern Africa. A consultant on electoral and media processes in southern Africa, Dr. Kasenally has authored numerous articles and co-edited several books, including Media and Democracy in an Age of Transition (2005) and Rights and Development in Mauritius – A Reader (2007). She is a member of several local media commissions, as well as the Indian Ocean Islands representative for the Organization of Social Science Research in Southern and Eastern Africa (OSSREA).
#Making Bosnia and Herzegovina Work: A Path to a Functioning Democracy##The International Forum for Democratic Studies and the Europe Program of the National Endowment for Democracy brought together academic experts on comparative constitutional design with legal and country specialists to discuss how Bosnia and Herzegovina can complete its democratic transition and achieve its Euro-Atlantic aspirations.During the half-day meeting, participants reviewed the state of governance and democracy in BiH and explored issues in the current debate on constitutional reform and the available options for proceedings. The meeting’s aim was to develop alternatives for decision-makers and citizens in BiH to consider rather than a set of prescriptive solutions.A report that summarizes the discussion, including the group’s reflections on the contemporary context and the challenges it poses, the process by which durable and legitimate change can be acomplished, and the minimum requirements for achieving a functioning government is available.Download the Report. :: pdf
#Liberia: Elections, Corruption, Justice, and the Role of the International Community##Liberia: Elections, Corruption, Justice, and the Role of the International Community from National Endowment for Democracy on Vimeo.Featuring former NED granteeJ. Aloysius Toe Senior Policy Consultant, Founder and former Executive Director, Foundation for Human Rights and Democracy (FOHRD)With comments byDave Peterson National Endowment for DemocracyRead the full presentation : MOREAfter three years of democratically-elected government following 15 years of civil war, Liberia appears to be making steady progress in consolidating peace, restoring security and stability, rebuilding its infrastructure, reducing its debt, reviving the economy, and re-establishing the rule of law.  The legislature is controlled by a loyal opposition, the courts are reasonably independent, the press is free, and civil society is robust.  As Africa’s first elected female head of state, President Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf has presided over a transformation of Liberia’s image in the international community, and her government’s reform policies have focused on a broad range of issues including international investment, support for trade unions, women’s rights, and primary education.Despite these advancements, Liberia still faces many serious challenges building its democracy after a decade of civil war.  Civil society is at the forefront of Liberia’s democratic movement, and has been an important driving force keeping the new government on track.  NED partner FOHRD has played a pivotal role in educating and bringing awareness to issues of budget literacy and government fiscal accountability to community members across Liberia.  To ensure that President Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf makes good on her promises of promoting good governance, FOHRD has strengthened the capacity of civil society organizations to monitor the new government’s compliance with international standards for transparency and human rights.J. Aloysius Toe, former political prisoner and 2005 Reebok Human Rights awardee, is the former executive director and founder of the Foundation for Human Rights and Democracy (FOHRD). Founded in Monrovia in November 2003, FOHRD is a nongovernmental organization which seeks to spread democratic principles and promote respect for social and economic rights in Liberia. During the country’s civil war Mr. Toe led the Movement for the Defense of Human Rights. Toe now serves as FOHRD’s senior policy consultant while he pursues his graduate studies at Brandeis University in Boston, MA.  He also currently serves on the Board of the International Human Rights Internship Program in Washington D.C. – which collaborates with NGOs on how to use budget analysis  as a tool for human rights work.
#Combating Corruption in Nigeria: The Promise of Investigative Reporting##Combating Corruption in Nigeria: The Promise of Investigative Reporting from National Endowment for Democracy on Vimeo.Dayo Alyetan Reagan-Fascell Democracy FellowCorruption permeates all levels of government in Nigeria—from the legislative and judicial branches to the police and civil service.  This has led to a widespread loss of faith in the public sector which, if left unaddressed, will undermine confidence in democracy as a viable system of government.  As the fourth estate of political life, the Nigerian media should be responsible for holding state institutions and government accountable to the people.  However, the Nigerian press has itself become a corrupt institution and is thus incapable of playing its traditional watchdog role.  Low salaries, the practice of influencing reporters with “brown envelopes” stuffed with cash, and pressure from a highly corrupt political class have conspired to compromise many media houses and journalists.  Commercial interests and considerations increasingly influence editorial judgments to such a degree that big advertisers are protected from critical reporting or are actually able to influence news content.How can journalists redeem their profession and take steps to strengthen independent reporting and government accountability in Nigeria?  In his presentation, Mr. Dayo Aiyetan, an accomplished Nigerian investigative journalist, examined the threat posed by corruption to Nigerian democracy and explored the role that new models of watchdog journalism, particularly non-profit centers and other research organizations, can play in reversing this troubling trend.Mr. Aiyetan is founding director of the International Center for Investigative Reporting, ICIR, Abuja. Prior to that, he served as senior associate editor and Abuja bureau chief for TELL, one of Nigeria’s preeminent independent political magazines. An accomplished investigative journalist, he has worked tirelessly to expose and combat corruption within Nigeria’s political system, his efforts having led to the prosecution and conviction of several former state governors. He has twice been nominated for a Nigerian Media Merit Award—once for Best Political Reporter of the Year (2005), and once for Best Investigative Reporter of the Year (2006). In 2009, he participated in a three-week investigative journalism fellowship program sponsored by the U.S. Department of State.
#The Chechen Struggle: Independence Won and Lost##Ilyas Akhmadov (watch presentation) and Miriam Lanskoy (watch presentation) With introductory remarks byZbigniew Brzezinski (watch presentation) Center for International and Strategic StudiesModerated byCarl Gershman National Endowment for DemocracyTold from the perspective of former Chechen Foreign Minister Ilyas Akhmadov, The Chechen Struggle: Independence Won and Lost is a uniquely candid, inside account of Chechnya’s two wars against Russia, its interwar attempt to establish national institutions, and the splintering and eventual radicalization of the resistance.  The book captures the predicament of Chechen moderates who unsuccessfully sought to attain international assistance to stop the war and avert its catastrophic consequences: the mass slaughter of Chechens, the spread of the conflict throughout the region, and Russia’s slide into dictatorship. Ilyas Akhmadov and his coauthor Miriam Lanskoy discussed the book and offered analysis of the current conflicts in the North Caucasus and their implications for the future of the region. Zbigniew Brzezinski provided introductory remarks.Ilyas Akhmadov was the Foreign Minister of Chechnya from 1999 to 2005, during the government of President Aslan Maskhadov. In 2004, he was a Reagan Fascell Democracy Fellow at the Endowment. His articles have appeared in The Washington Post and The Boston Globe.Miriam Lanskoy is director of the Russia and Eurasia program at the National Endowment for Democracy. She is an expert on the North Caucasus who has published numerous articles, testified before Congress, and appeared on PBS’s The Newshour.Zbigniew Brzezinski, National Security Advisor during the Carter Administration, is a counselor and trustee at CSIS and co-chairs its Advisory Board. He is co-chair of the American Committee for Peace in the Caucasus and is a former chairman of the American-Ukrainian Advisory Committee.Carl Gershman is president of NED.
#The Pentagon, Information Operations, and International Media Development##FeaturingPeter Cary Author, The Pentagon, Information Operations, and International Media DevelopmentWith comments byRosa Brooks U.S. Department of DefenseJeanne Bourgault Internews NetworkModerated byBill Leonard National Endowment for DemocracyAs part of its post-9/11 strategy, the Department of Defense (DoD) has launched a multi-front information war, both to support its troops on the ground and to counter the propaganda of extremists. The DoD’s global public relations war, however, has fostered criticism that the department has over-reached and tarred the efforts of U.S. organizations doing media development work abroad.The department has overseen a large budget for such media operations, which are not always open to public scrutiny and whose effectiveness often cannot be measured.The report analyzes the impact of DoD information operations on international media development efforts and offers recommendations. Peter Cary, a veteran journalist with extensive experience reporting about the U.S. military, presented a summary of his report for CIMA, The Pentagon, Information Operations, and Media Development, and examined DoD’s evolving role in media development worldwide.Peter Cary is a consultant who specializes in writing, editing, and public relations projects. He is a former managing editor, investigative editor, and Pentagon reporter at U.S. News & World Report magazine. Cary worked at several newspapers, including the Bergen Record and the Miami Herald, before joining U.S. News in 1987. He began there as a national reporter, then became the magazine’s Pentagon correspondent, and covered the 1991 Gulf War. He co-wrote Triumph Without Victory, the magazine’s book about that war, and subsequently moved to the U.S. News investigative team, which he later led. In his final years at U.S. News, he was the managing editor for news and administration and helped launch several new business ventures. He has won numerous awards for his investigative work, including a Sigma Delta Chi award for an article on the explosion aboard the battleship U.S.S. Iowa in 1989.Rosa Brooks is the deputy assistant secretary of defense for rule of law and international humanitarian policy and senior advisor to the under secretary of defense for policy.  She is currently on a public service leave from her position as a professor at the Georgetown University Law Center, where she specializes in international law.  From 2005 to 2009, Brooks was a foreign policy columnist for the Los Angeles Times. Her career has spanned positions in government, academia, and non-governmental organizations, including at the Department of State’s Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights and Labor; Yale Law School; the Open Society Institute; and Human Rights Watch, among others. She also has served on numerous boards and advisory groups, including the board of directors of the National Security Network, the steering committee of the White Oak Foreign Policy Leaders’ Project, the board of directors of Amnesty International USA, and the Executive Council of the American Society of International Law.  Brooks earned a bachelor’s degree from Harvard University, a master’s degree from the University of Oxford (where she was a Marshall Scholar), and a law degree from Yale Law School.Jeanne Bourgault is president of Internews Network, which she joined in 2001 as vice president for programs. From 1990-1996, she served with the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID), including spending three years supporting democracy programs at the U.S. Embassy in Moscow. Following that, Bourgault worked in the former Yugoslavia, serving as a strategic advisor for media development programs in post-war Kosovo, as well as manager of community development projects in Serbia and Montenegro.  In late 2000, Bourgault re-opened USAID’s Office of Transition Initiatives program in Belgrade following the fall of Slobodan Milosevic. She has consulted on international development program design and evaluation for the Open Society Institute, the Ford Foundation, and the United Nations Centre for Human Rights, among others. Bourgault speaks Russian and holds master’s degrees in international studies and public affairs from the University of Washington.J. William (Bill) Leonard is the chief operating officer at the National Endowment for Democracy (NED). Before coming to the NED, Leonard was the director of the information security oversight office at the National Archives, where he served under Allen Weinstein, who was a key figure in the NED’s history and directed the study group that led to its founding. Prior to that, Leonard served as a senior policymaker and senior program manager at the Department of Defense, where he rose to the rank of deputy assistant secretary of defense for security and information operations and was involved in policy, guidance, and oversight of the department’s information operations programs. He earned his bachelor’s degree in history at St. John’s University, and a master’s degree in international relations from Boston University. Leonard has taught as an adjunct professor of political science at St. Mary’s College of Maryland.
#Political Clientelism, Social Policy, and the Quality of Democracy: Evidence from Latin America, Lessons from Other Regions##Conference Report :: PDFOn November 5 and 6, 2010, the International Forum for Democratic Studies (as the Executive Secretariat of the Network of Democracy Research Institutes), Grupo FARO, and Stanford University’s Center on Democracy, Development, and the Rule of Law co-sponsored a conference on “Political Clientelism, Social Policy, and the Quality of Democracy: Evidence from Latin America: Lessons from Other Regions.”The conference drew together over 20 scholars from Latin America, Africa, Asia, postcommunist Europe, and the United States to discuss how political clientelism affects social policy and the quality of democracy in Argentina, Chile, Brazil, Peru, Colombia, Ecuador, Japan, Thailand, the Philippines, India, postcommunist Europe, and Africa.The conference was also made possible by generous grants from the Ford Foundation and the Taiwan Democracy Foundation. Download the conference report. :: PDFThe conference also resulted in the publication of the JOD Book Poverty, Inequality, and Democracy (2012) edited by Francis Fukuyama, Larry Diamond, and Marc F. Plattner
#North Korean Human Rights Advocacy: Making the Most of Scarce Data##Welcoming remarks by:Jae H. Ku, Director, USKI Kim Sang Hun, Chairman, NKDBPanelists:Kim In Sung, Researcher and Lee Ja Eun, Senior Researcher, NKDB Paula Schriefer, Director of Advocacy, Freedom HouseThursday, November 11, 2010 2:00 – 4:00 p.m. Rome Auditorium Johns Hopkins University – SAIS 1619 Massachusetts Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20036On Thursday, November 11, 2010, the chairman of NED grantee Database Center for North Korea Human Rights (NKDB) participated in a seminar at Johns Hopkins SAIS examining the findings of the 2010 White Paper on North Korean Human Rights. The White Paper, published annually by NKDB, provided systematically researched and analyzed data on human rights violations in North Korea. NKDB Chairman Kim Sang Hun was joined by Paula Schriefer of Freedom House, and Jae H. Ku, Director of the US Korea Institute. Researchers from the NKDB also participated.
#Press Freedom in Ukraine: Incredible Shrinking Media Space?##Press Freedom in Ukraine: Incredible Shrinking Media Space? from CIMA on Vimeo.Featuring:Myroslava Gongadze Voice of AmericaOksana Maydan Internews NetworkDenis Gursky Television Industry CommitteeModerated by:Nadia Diuk National Endowment for DemocracyIn 2004, the Orange Revolution signaled the rise of a powerful civic movement against a corrupt, Kremlin-backed system. Viktor Yanukovych, then-candidate of the authoritarian regime and opponent of the Orange forces, is now president of Ukraine. While publicly stating its commitment to democracy, the rule of law, and respect for human rights, privately, Yanukovych’s government is quickly reversing hard-won press freedoms. In a recent report, Reporters Without Borders criticized the serious erosion of broadcast media pluralism, warning of a disturbing increase in political pressure, censorship, and attacks on journalists. Several dissenting television stations have had their licenses revoked, and the pro-government Inter Media organization has become increasingly prominent. And with the recent disappearance and suspected murder of newspaper editor Vasyl Klymentyev, a well-known critic of the authorities, media and human rights monitors are warning of continuing, significant deteriorations in press freedom. Do these trends signal a wider, systematic crackdown against the media? And what do these events mean in an environment where, even after the Orange Revolution, media were not fully independent from oligarchic control or cash-for-coverage journalism? The panel examined these questions and discussed growing international unease over the direction of press freedom in Ukraine.Myroslava Gongadze is a journalist and television anchor for the Voice of America’s Ukrainian service. She has won numerous awards for her accomplishments as a journalist, including her reporting on the eve of the 2004 Orange Revolution, and as a champion of democracy and independent media. The widow of slain investigative reporter Heorhiy Gongadze, she fled Ukraine in 2001, and has labored tirelessly to bring her husband’s case to justice. She won a landmark negligence ruling against the Ukrainian government from the European Court of Human Rights in November 2005.Oksana Maydan is the Deputy Chief of Party for Internews Network in Ukraine. Prior to joining Internews, Maydan served as project manager at the Foundation for Effective Governance (FEG) where she helped produce a series of high-level public debates on economic and business development in Ukraine. There, she was also in charge of the Foundation’s communication policies and worked closely with FEG’s international advisory board. Between 2004 and 2008, she managed the USAID-funded Ukraine Reform Education Program, coordinating a nation-wide public awareness campaign in ten priority economic and social sectors. Maydan also managed the Advising Center at the American Councils for International Education (ACCELS) from 2003-2004, and headed the International Research and Exchanges Board (IREX) office in Ukraine from 1999-2003. She earned her doctorate in Ukrainian philology at the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine in 1996.Denis Gursky is a new media and digital technology expert. As the digital committee coordinator for the Television Industry Committee (TIC)-the leading broadcast industry association in Ukraine-Gursky heads digital switchover and lobbying projects that link the television industry, government, and international institutions. Prior to that, he was involved in public relations, entertainment, and sound production, and headed the press department for Eurovision in 2008. His new media background started in 2006, when he helped organize the first Ukrainian blogcamp. Since then, he has conducted trainings and spoken at conferences across Europe on new media technology. Gursky also consults for Ukrainian media companies and media development non-governmental organizations, and is a founder of a new media expert council called “Media Marketing Mom.” Gursky has a master’s degree in International Economics from the Kyiv National Economic University.Nadia Diuk serves as vice president of programs for Europe and Eurasia, Africa, Latin America and the Caribbean at the National Endowment for Democracy (NED). For over twenty years prior to her appointment as vice president, she supervised NED programs and strategies in what was then known as Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union, and, later, as Eurasia. Prior to her appointment at the NED she taught Soviet Politics and Russian History at Oxford University; was a research associate at the Society for Central Asian Studies in England; and editor-in-chief of the London-based Soviet Nationality Survey. Diuk is a member of the Council on Foreign Relations. She earned her master’s degree in Russian and East European Studies and her doctorate in Modern History from St. Antony’s College at the University of Oxford.
#Soft Censorship: Chipping Away at Press Freedom in Latin America##While not as overt as traditional forms of censorship, soft or indirect censorship is slowly but surely chipping away at freedom of expression. Governments in Latin America are using financial, legal, and administrative pressures to influence media coverage. In Argentina and Colombia, the government has repeatedly used advertising contracts to reward or punish media companies. In Venezuela, Ecuador, and elsewhere, legislatures are considering media laws and administrative procedures that would effectively result in self-censorship. Finally, the allocation of broadcast licenses presents another avenue for governments to punish or control specific media outlets.Featuring:Alvaro Herrero, Asociación Derechos Civiles (Argentina) Cesar Ricaurte, Fundamedios (Ecuador) Luis Botello, International Center for JournalistsWith introductory remarks by Don Podesta, Center for International Media Assistance Alvaro Herrerois the executive director of the Buenos Aires-based Association for Civil Rights (ADC).  He holds a law degree, a master’s degree in Latin American Studies, and a doctorate in Political Science. Formerly, he worked at an Argentine federal court and several non-profit organizations, including the Inter-American Development Bank, Inter-American Dialogue, and International Foundation for Electoral Systems. Herrero has published articles and conducted projects in fifteen Latin American countries. In 2008, ADC published the book, The Price of Silence: The Growing Threat of Soft Censorship in Latin America, which analyzed the use of government advertising in seven countries in the region. The study documented the pressures and conditions that governments in Latin American exert over media companies and journalists, and their impact on freedom of expression and access to information.Cesar Ricaurte is a journalist and the executive director of the Quito-based Andean Foundation to Observe and Study Media (FUNDAMEDIOS). In his professional career, Ricaurte has worked for multiple newspapers including El Comercio, Vistazo and El Universo, among others. He writes a weekly column for the Diario Hoy, and produces a radio program entitled “The Media Observatory.” He recently co-authored the book, Broken Word: Six Investigations on Ecuadorian Journalism. FUNDAMEDIOS is a regional initiative that seeks to protect press freedom and promote professional, responsible journalism in Ecuador. It has actively participated in discussions regarding proposed media legislation in Ecuador.Luis Manuel Botello is the senior program director of special projects at the International Center for Journalists (ICFJ), where he is responsible for developing strategies for expanding ICFJ’s work and overseas monitoring and evaluation systems. He worked for ten years as ICFJ’s Latin American program director and launched the ICFJ’s International Journalism Network (IJNet), an online media assistance news service. Botello previously served as morning newscast producer, host, and television reporter for Televisora Nacional in Panama, where he covered assignments in Colombia, the United States, and Europe. He is a member of the board of directors of the Knight Center for Journalism in the Americas at the University of Texas at Austin and the Latin American Journalism Center (CELAP) in Panama City, Panama.Don Podesta is the manager and publications editor at the Center for International Media Assistance at the National Endowment for Democracy. Formerly, he was an assistant managing editor at The Washington Post, where he worked for 27 years.  Podesta also served as the paper’s news editor and deputy foreign editor, editing dispatches from correspondents in more than 20 bureaus around the world. From 1992 to 1994, he was the Post’s correspondent in South America, covering Peru’s war against the Shining Path guerrilla movement; presidential elections in Bolivia, Chile, and Paraguay; the drug violence in Colombia; and several economic, social, and environmental issues in Brazil and Argentina. Before joining the Post, he worked as an editor or reporter for the Washington Star, the Minneapolis Star, the Miami Herald and the Arizona Republic.
#The Elusive Synthesis: Exploring the Changing Relationship Between Democracy Support and Development Aid##Featuring:Thomas Carothers Carnegie Endowment for International PeaceScott Hubli National Democratic InstituteBrian Levy World BankModerator:Marc F. Plattner National Endowment for DemocracyThursday, October 7, 2010 Carnegie Endowment for International PeaceThe once relatively separate communities of democracy aid and development aid have in recent years become increasingly interconnected. Developmentalists acknowledge the importance of taking politics into account and accept governance as a factor in developmental success. Democracy aid providers embrace the need to shape their efforts to “help democracy deliver” on the socioeconomic front. Yet within each of these communities uncertainty and at times ambivalence still mark attitudes about the other. Do the growing ties between the two domains constitute a process of integration or even synthesis? What are the most important areas of common ground and the most significant differences? What does it mean to integrate democracy goals into a larger developmental agenda?To mark the publication of a set of articles on this topic in the October 2010 issue of the Journal of Democracy, and the publication a new Journal of Democracy book, Debates on Democratization (Johns Hopkins Press), the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and the Journal of Democracy cosponsored a panel discussion on this topic featuring the authors of the articles in the October 2010 Journal forum on democracy and development.Thomas Carothers is the vice president for studies at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. In this capacity, he oversees the Democracy and Rule of Law Program and Carnegie Europe. Carothers is a leading authority on democracy promotion and democratization worldwide, as well as an expert on U.S. foreign policy generally. He is the founder and director of the Democracy and the Rule of Law Program, which analyzes the state of democracy in the world.Scott Hubli is the director of governance programs at the National Democratic Institute (NDI). In addition to his long history of work with NDI, both on the governance team and with the executive office, Hubli has served as a consultant to organizations and international institutions worldwide, including the United Nations Development Programme, the Asia Foundation, Associates in Rural Development, and Management Systems International.Brian Levy is currently an adviser on public sector governance at the World Bank, where he has also served as sector manager of the Africa Public Sector Reform and Capacity Building Unit and has worked with the organization’s Africa Vice Presidency on the challenges of strengthening the institutional underpinnings of African development. He has published numerous books and articles on the interactions between public institutions, the private sector and development in Africa, East Asia, and elsewhere.Marc F. Plattner is founding coeditor of the Journal of Democracy, vice-president for research and studies at the National Endowment for Democracy (NED), and director of the International Forum for Democratic Studies. In addition to his work in Washington, he has held several visiting fellowships and has been an adviser on economic and social affairs at the U.S. Mission to the United Nations. He is the author or editor of numerous books, and has published articles on a wide range of international and public policy issues.
#Covering Corruption: The Difficulties of Trying to Make a Difference##Covering Corruption: The Difficulties of Trying to Make a Difference from CIMA on Vimeo.FeaturingRosemary Armao Author, Covering Corruption, The Difficulties of Trying to Make a DifferenceWith comments byStefan Candea Romanian Center for Investigative Journalism 2011 Nieman FellowNathaniel Heller Global IntegrityModerated byDavid E. Kaplan International Consortium of Investigative Journalists Center for Public IntegrityIt is often taken for granted that a free press shining a light on wrongdoing is the way to control corruption. Brave journalists around the world have endured threats and attacks and have even died reporting about corruption. Yet only recently have news organizations begun asking whether what they are doing is making any difference, particularly in states where democracy is weak or non-existent.  How can journalists operate in environments where they cannot access government documents or question officials, and where they are subjected to jail for sedition or libel if they write anything perceived as unfavorable? Where police and politicians are among the corrupt, the courts are bound by the powerful, and people have come to accept petty bribery and gifting as normal, what can journalists do? A new CIMA report by Rosemary Armao, Covering Corruption: The Difficulties of Trying to Make a Difference, examines the impact of reporting about the topic on the incidence of corruption, asking whether and how media have an effect in bringing about reform and better governance. It also explores reporting methods that lead to civil action and reform while keeping journalists safe, and suggests training approaches for media development organizations and educational institutions.Rosemary Armao is an assistant professor of journalism/communication at the State University of New York at Albany. She is also an advisor and member of the board of directors of the Center for Investigative Reporting in Bosnia-Herzegovina and a consultant for the Organized Crime and Corruption Project based in Romania. In a career of nearly 40 years, Armao has written and edited at a number of U.S. newspapers, taught at several universities, and worked on reporting and media development projects in Africa, Asia, and Eastern Europe. She is a former executive director and member of the board of directors of Investigative Reporters and Editors and a former Knight International Press Fellow. Armao served as a bureau chief for the Baltimore Sun, managing editor of the Sarasota Herald Tribune, and state and investigative editor of the Fort Lauderdale Sun Sentinel. She holds degrees from Syracuse University and Ohio State University.Stefan Candea is the co-founder of the Romanian Center for Investigative Journalism and is currently a Carroll Binder Nieman Fellow at Harvard. He is involved in investigative work, teaching, and advocacy, covering Eastern Europe, the Balkans and the Black Sea region. He has worked for print publications and radio and television stations across Romania, and conducts freelance research and production work for several foreign media outlets.  Candea has covered the connections between international organized crime networks and high-ranking politicians and public servants, the international arms trade, illegal international adoptions, and the diamond business. Since March 2001, he has been a correspondent for Reporters Without Borders in Romania.Nathaniel Heller is the managing director at Global Integrity, which he has led since 2005. From 2002 – 2005, Heller worked at the U.S. Department of State, focusing on European security and transatlantic relations. He was integrally involved with the planning process to modernize U.S. basing arrangements in Europe, the largest shift in the U.S. military presence there since the end of the Cold War, for which he received the State Department’s Superior Honor Award.  In 2004, he served as a foreign policy fellow to the late Senator Edward Kennedy. As a senior associate and James R. Soles Fellow at the Center for Public Integrity from 1999-2002, Nathaniel Heller, along with Chuck Lewis and Marianne Camerer, developed the Integrity Indicators and conceptual model for what is now Global Integrity. Heller is a magna cum laude, Phi Beta Kappa graduate of the University of Delaware and earned his master’s degree at Georgetown University’s School of Foreign Service.David E. Kaplan is director of the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists, a global network of 100 journalists in 50 countries, based at the Center for Public Integrity in Washington, D.C. Over a 30-year career, he has investigated organized crime, terrorist groups, corporate polluters, corrupt law enforcement officials, neo-Nazis, the banking industry, and the intelligence community. Previously, Kaplan worked as chief investigative correspondent for U.S. News & World Report and as one of two senior editors at the San Francisco-based Center for Investigative Reporting. In 2007, he wrote Global Investigative Journalism: Strategies for Support, a CIMA report on investigative reporting overseas. He has reported from two dozen countries and is a former Fulbright scholar in Japan. Among his books are YAKUZA, widely considered the standard reference on the Japanese mafia; and Fires of the Dragon, on the murder of journalist Henry Liu. Kaplan’s stories have won or shared more than 15 awards, including honors from Investigative Reporters and Editors, the American Bar Association, Overseas Press Club, and World Affairs Council.
#Merchants of Modernity: Business, Development, and Democracy in Developing Countries##Merchants of Modernity: Business, Development, and Democracy in Developing Countries from National Endowment for Democracy on Vimeo.FeaturingAnn Bernstein Centre for Development and Enterprise (South Africa)Moderated byMarc F. Plattner International Forum for Democratic StudiesIn her new book, The Case for Business in Developing Economies, former Reagan-Fascell Fellow Ann Bernstein argues that “just doing business” can have unintended positive consequences for society. These include potentially transforming the trajectory of national economies; boosting the forces for modernization; strengthening civil society; expanding human rights and the rule of law; and unleashing pressures for democratization. In this sense business, far from being a conservative force supporting the status quo or an essentially malign power that needs to pay a social penalty to offset the negative consequences of its pursuit of profit, is a constant agent of social change.Ms. Bernstein explained her argument that economic rationality inadvertently leads to individuals with modern attitudes and to the creation of civil society, which in turn facilitate human rights, pluralism, and democracy. The market, she contended, is a driver of democratic development.Ann Bernstein is the executive director of the Centre for Development and Enterprise (CDE) in South Africa, one of the country’s leading social and economic policy think tanks, which focuses on the role of business and its contribution to development. Ms. Bernstein has published extensively on democracy, development, and policy-making in South Africa, including Migration and Refugee Policies (with M. Weiner, 1999), and Business and Democracy: Cohabitation or Contradiction? (1999). In 2005 she was a Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellow at the National Endowment for Democracy in Washington, D.C. In 2007 she joined the board of directors of the Brenthurst Foundation.
#Competitive Authoritarianism: Hybrid Regimes after the Cold War##A panel discussion featuring authors:Steven Levitsky and Lucan WayWith comments by:Thomas Carothers Carnegie Endowment for International Peace“Competitive authoritarianism”—a type of regime that combines competitive elections with serious violations of democratic procedures—has proliferated during the post-Cold War era. In their book Competitive Authoritarianism: Hybrid Regimes after the Cold War, Steven Levitsky and Lucan Way explained the rise and diverging fortunes of competitive authoritarian regimes since 1990. Based on a comparative study of 35 cases in Africa, Asia, the Americas, and postcommunist Eurasia, their book finds that competitive authoritarian countries with extensive ties to the West were much more likely to democratize. By raising the external cost of authoritarian abuses, linkage to the West helped bring democracy even to countries where domestic conditions were unfavorable. Where such ties were limited, however, external pressure for democratization was weaker. Regime outcomes in these cases hinged on the character of state and ruling-party organizations. Where incumbents possessed robust coercive and party structures, competitive authoritarian regimes proved durable; where incumbents lacked such organizational tools, regimes were unstable but rarely democratized. Levitsky and Way explored these trends and discussed the questions that they raise. Their presentation was followed by comments by Thomas Carothers.Steven Levitsky is professor of government at Harvard University. His research interests include political parties, political regimes and regime change, and the causes and consequences of institutional weakness, with a focus on Latin America. He is author of Transforming Labor-Based Parties in Latin America: Argentine Peronism in Comparative Perspective (Cambridge University Press, 2003); and co-editor of Argentine Democracy: The Politics of Institutional Weakness (2005) and Informal Institutions and Democracy: Lessons from Latin America (2006). He is also co-editing a book (with Kenneth Roberts) on the rise of the Left in Latin America.Lucan Way is assistant professor of political science at the University of Toronto, where his research interests include regime change and weak states with a focus on postcommunist Eurasia. He is currently completing a book, Pluralism by Default: Sources of Political Competition in the Former Soviet Union, and has published articles in Comparative Politics, Journal of Democracy, Politics & Society, World Politics, as well as numerous edited volumes and area-based journals.Thomas Carothers is the vice president for studies at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. In this capacity, he oversees the Democracy and Rule of Law Program, Middle East Program, and Carnegie Europe. He is the author of numerous books on democracy promotion.
#Biographies for Honorees of 2008 Democracy Award#September 27, 2010#Born in 1971 and blind since childhood, Chen Guangcheng is a self-taught lawyer and activist in Shandong province who has represented hundreds of villagers in rights-violation cases. In his most famous case, Chen filed a class-action lawsuit against the city of Linyi over an official policy of forced abortions and sterilizations. In September 2005, Chen was abducted by authorities and placed under house arrest. Then in 2006, Chen was arbitrarily detained, then tried on a sham criminal charge and was sentenced to four years and three months in prison, where he has been abused. In addition, local Chinese authorities continue to harass and threaten his wife, Yuan Weijing. Dr. Teng Biao is a scholar and lecturer at the Law School of the China University of Political Science and Law and practices law at the Beijing Huayi Law Firm, where he is a leading innovator in rights defense law, case strategy, and legal analysis, and has been counsel in numerous human rights cases, including those of Chen Guangcheng and Hu Jia. While he continues to teach, authorities restrict Teng’s movements and harassment has begun to escalate. Authorities recently refused to renew Teng Biao’s lawyer’s license because of his willingness to represent Tibetans supposedly involved in the March 2008 protests. Li Heping is a partner at Beijing Global Law Firm and has built a strong reputation as a defense lawyer in a large number of politically sensitive cases. Many of those he represents are Christian family churches, members of the Falun Gong, independent writers, and victims of forced eviction. He, along with five other lawyers, filed a landmark brief regarding the state’s right to determine the definitions for categories of religions. Over the last year, Li has been has been suffering escalating harassment including kidnapping, torture, and other physical intimidation.Li Baiguang is a practicing lawyer who specializes in administrative law cases and the rule of law with respect to religious belief and practice. He is a “house church” Protestant himself, and has taken on numerous cases promoting freedom of religion. He works to raise awareness among house church leaders of their legal rights, while simultaneously demanding that the government comply with its own laws and regulations related to religion. He was arrested and detained on December 14, 2004, after bringing legal action on behalf of over 100,000 peasants who were forcibly evicted from their land; and since his release, he has been detained and physically attacked many times. Cyber Dissident, Zhang Jianhong (pen name, Li Hong), a member of the Independent Chinese PEN Center, was sentenced in March 2007 to a six-year sentence for “incitement to subversion of state power.” Zhang is a well-respected writer in China, who contributed regularly to liberal-minded publications in China and to Chinese websites abroad. In August 2005, he founded the popular research and literary site “Aegean Sea” (www.Aiqinghai.org), which was shut down by authorities in March 2006. He is currently hospitalized for partial paralysis and is continuing to serve his sentence despite numerous motions for medical parole. In the early 1990s, Zhang served a year and a half in a re-education-through-labor camp for participating in the 1989 prodemocracy movement. Yao Fuxin is a 57-year-old labor leader from northern China who is currently serving a seven-year sentence for leading peaceful demonstrations protesting corruption and unpaid wages in Liaoyang City in 2002. A former worker at the Liaoyang Steel Rolling Mill, Yao was one of a group of 10 workers who traveled to Beijing in 1998 to petition central authorities about corruption in the city, to no avail. Despite a UN ruling that Yao’s arrest was arbitrary, he remains in prison where he has suffered a heart attack, a possible stroke, and other ailments, but has been repeatedly denied medical parole. He is due for release in 2010. Hu Shigen, a labor and political activist, university lecturer, and writer, is one of the few remaining Chinese citizens charged with “counterrevolutionary crimes” to remain in prison, due for release in 2010. He was arrested in September 1992 for planning activities in several of China’s major cities commemorating the June 4, 1989 Tiananmen crackdown, and for planning to establish the Preparatory Committee of the Free Labor Union of China. Hu was a founding member of the China Freedom and Democracy Party and campaigned for government accountability for the violent suppression of the democracy movement in June 1989.Bob Fu  founded the China Aid Association (CAA) after he and his family came to the United States from China in 1996. CAA monitors and reports on religious freedom in China, particularly focusing on the fate of believers who belong to banned or unofficial house churches, which encompass 60 to 80 million followers. CAA issues frequent news releases on cases of religious persecution involving Protestant house church congregations, and assists victims to assert their right to freedom of conscience and freedom of religious practice in China.CAA also provides a forum for discussion and information exchange among experts on religion, law, and human rights in China through its bilingual journal, the China Law & Religion Monitor, and a bilingual website.Fu was a leader in the student democracy movement at Tiananmen Square in 1989. He later converted to Christianity and became a house church pastor and a founder, along with his wife, Heidi, of a Bible school. He was arrested and jailed in 1996. After his release, he came to the U.S. and studied theology and founded the China Aid Association in 2002.As a 26-year-old railway electrician, Han Dongfang emerged as the leader of China’s first independent labor union since 1949, the Beijing Workers’ Autonomous Federation, during the 1989 Tiananmen democracy movement. After the massacre in Beijing on June 4, Han set off on his bicycle on what he expected to be a one- or two-year cross-country trip designed to help him learn more about working conditions in China. On June 19, Han found out to his surprise that he was on the “most-wanted” list, and turned himself in to the police. Han was never tried or sentenced. At the end of April 1991, after he contracted drug-resistant tuberculosis in prison, he was permitted to return home. In 1992, when it was clear his health was not improving, he was permitted to travel to the U.S. for treatment, including removal of a lung.In 1993, Han tried to return to China to continue his work, but was turned back at the Hong Kong border, where Chinese authorities refused him admission. That year he received NED’s Democracy Award.Han stayed in Hong Kong, where he founded China Labour Bulletin in 1994 to promote worker rights and trade unionism in China. Since 1997, he has also hosted an influential weekly Radio Free Asia program on labor issues that reaches an estimated 40 million people in China. He also serves on the steering committee of the World Movement for Democracy. Han continues to be in daily contact via phone and e-mail with workers in China.Sharon Hom is Executive Director of Human Rights in China (HRIC), the well-known nongovernmental organization (NGO) founded by Chinese scientists and scholars in March 1989.  Its mission is to promote international human rights and advance the institutional protection of these rights in the People’s Republic of China. HRIC’s education, research, and advocacy strategies aim to support the work of local civil society groups in promoting the process of economic, administrative, and legal reform, and to generate international pressure in support of such reform.Named by the Wall Street Journal as one of “50 Women to Watch” in 2007, Hom is Professor of Law Emerita at the City University of New York School of Law and has over 14 years of experience in USA-China legal exchanges and training programs. She was a Fulbright Scholar in the People’s Republic of China and a Scholar-in-Residence at the Rockefeller Foundation’s Bellagio Center. She also participated as an independent expert at the World Summit on the Information Society’s International Symposium on the Information Society and Human Dignity. She served on the USA-China Committee on Legal Education Exchange with China, and sits on the board of Human Rights Watch/Asia, and on the Committees on Asian Affairs and International Human Rights of the Bar Association of the City of New York.Wang Tiancheng, a friend and colleague of Hu Shigen, is currently a Visiting Scholar at the Center for the Study of Human Rights at Columbia University. Mr. Wang earned his B.A. from Hunan Normal University and his law degree from Peking University, where he served as law lecturer.He was active in the 1989 prodemocracy movement and later helped found an independent political party, the Liberal and Democratic Party of China, and was involved in the Free Labour Union of China. He was detained in December 1991 and charged with “actively taking part in a counter-revolutionary group” and “carrying out counter-revolutionary propaganda and incitement.” In 1992, he was sentenced to a five-year prison term.Since his release in 1997, Mr. Wang has published influential and prize-winning papers on the rule of law and constitutionalism in China, and has called publicly for a reconsideration of government policies on Tibet.Trained as a theoretical physicist, Xiao Qiang became a full-time human rights activist after the events in Tiananmen Square in 1989. He currently directs the China Internet Project at the Graduate School of Journalism at the University of California, Berkeley. He is the founder and publisher of China Digital Times, a leading independent China news portal.Xiao was Executive Director of the New York-based NGO Human Rights in China from 1991 to 2002 and has served as Vice-Chairman of the steering committee of the World Movement for Democracy. He delivered an oral intervention at each meeting of the U.N. Commission on Human Rights in Geneva from 1993 to 2001, and has testified many times before the U.S. Congress, most recently on issues related to Internet freedom. Xiao received a MacArthur “Genius” Fellowship in 2001 and is profiled in Soul Purpose: 40 People Who Are Changing the World for the Better (Melcher Media, 2003). A scholar in Chinese democratic constitutional theory, Dr. Yang Jianli participated in the June 4th Tiananmen Square prodemocracy demonstrations in 1989, after which he was blacklisted by the Chinese government and was forced to live in exile for his political activism.  In 1990, Dr. Yang founded the Foundation for China in the 21st Century, which produces the Web magazine ChinaEWeekly.com and the book series China in the 21st Century.   He earned a doctorate in mathematics from the University of California at Berkeley (1991) and a second doctorate, in political economy and government, from Harvard University (2001). Dr. Yang returned to China in 2002 and was arrested and sentenced to a five-year prison term.  After his release in 2007, he returned to the US to continue his work. He is now President of Initiatives for China, a group with offices in Boston and Washington dedicated to the long term goal of building a constitutional democracy in China.This half-day conference featured Senators Ted Kaufman...The International Forum for Democratic Studies asked...He addressed the struggle for democracy and the rule...
#Remarks From 2008 Democracy Award#September 27, 2010# Remarks by Paula J. Dobriansky, Under Secretary for Democracy and Global Affairs Thank you, Congressmen, Carl (Gershman), and Vin (Weber), for those kind words, and for your service on the NED board. Having served by your side, I can attest to the enormous commitment of time and energy that every member of NED’s board and staff gives to advancing liberty.Today we are here to honor both those who cannot be with us as well as those who have risked much to do so. We are here to commit ourselves to supporting their goal of full democratic freedoms in China.We honor Zhang Jianhong’s defense of freedom of expression – a call we support through the State Department’s Global Internet Freedom Task Force, which I co-chair. The Internet is an invaluable forum for legitimate debate in closed societies, and it is the responsibility of all free nations to protect unfettered access to information and ideas.We honor Yao Fuxin and Hu Shigen for their commitment to worker’s rights; Li Heping and Li Baiguang for their leadership on religious freedom; and Chen Guangcheng and Teng Biao for their dedication to human rights and the rule of law – all essential elements of a vibrant democracy.Each of these brave men has made significant personal sacrifices on behalf of millions of others in the quest to expand freedom in one of the most important countries today.They give us faith that the hope necessary to continue on with this difficult work cannot be extinguished, and that there exists in the hearts of these four souls the courage of thousands, indeed millions, more.The memory of one person who cannot be with us today remains close to my own heart, as I have little doubt it does to everyone in this room.I can think of no more fitting recipient of the Democracy Service Medal than the late Tom Lantos, a giant in the the defense of human rights, whose absence long be felt. Having been a direct witness to the darkest evil of totalitarianism, his commitment to tolerance and freedom was forged in profound moral terms that few will be able to equal. His legacy sets a standard for which we can be grateful.As an original co-sponsor of the Global Anti-Semitism Review Act of 2004, Representative Lantos was a driving force behind the State Department’s report on ‘Contemporary Global Anti-Semitism,’ released earlier this year – a report we were proud to dedicate to his memory.In that dedication, we wrote that Tom Lantos “attested with uncommon eloquence to a truth based on an unspeakable experience: (that) promoting tolerance is essential to building a world of freedom and peace.”Leaders of conscience from around the world join us in honoring Tom Lantos, and I thank the NED for recognizing his monumental contributions to those goals of freedom and peace to which we continue to commit ourselves each and every day.Thank you.Remarks by Xiao Qiang  Accepting on behalf of Zhang JianhongI am proud to stand here, receiving this honor on behalf of Zhang Jianhong.This is a special award for Zhang, since he was a participant in 1989 Democracy Movement. From Tiananmen Square to the age of the Internet, Mr. Zhang reminds us that the spirit of free speech cannot, and will not be crushed by any forms of tyranny, whether they are tanks, machine guns, prison cells, or the Great Firewall.An American Internet pioneer once famously said that “Information wants to be free !” I want to say that censorship in Chinese cyberspace will eventually fail because “Chinese people want to be free!”Thank you, National Endowment for Democracy, for this recognition.Remarks by Li BaiguangI am grateful to NED for giving me the 2008 Democracy Award, which is great encouragement for me to continue to utilize the law to advance religious freedom in ChinaIn the past 3 decades, China has achieved rapid economic development but political reforms remain relatively stagnant, and in some aspects have even deteriorated.The result of a lack of supervision and checks and balances within China’s one party system is that China is lagging behind in advancing freedom, democracy, human rights, and rule of law.However, my experiences tell me, that using law to protect citizens’ rights and freedom can play a role in restricting abuses of official authority and in empowering citizens in China.As a lawyer, and with the support of my fellow countrymen and the international community, I will continue to utilize the law to fight arbitrary abuse of power, to educate officials, to seek justice for victims of rights abuses, and promote rule of law in China.Acceptance Remarks by Li Heping Today, I stand in a stronghold of Freedom and I am excited and inspired.I want to thank all of those men and women concerned about human rights in China and around the globe. It is your hardwork that makes the world a better place.God created humanity and every person has rights to four inalienable freedoms as mentioned by President Roosevelt:Because humanity has limited tolerance of others, in many places around the world, to different degrees, these freedoms and the right of citizens to be their own masters is not guaranteed.However, Chinese and Americans are working together tirelessly to improve human rights in the world. Americans have won respect of peoples from many different countries because of their outstanding contributions to human rights.Between now and the time NED began to make the Democracy Award, 10 Chinese people have received this award and awareness of human rights has gradually increased. To have so many Chinese citizens receive this award makes it clear that China’s democracy is still not perfect and it needs the efforts and resources of more Chinese citizens as well as support from the international community to improve it.Honorable ladies and gentlemen, if you consider commendable my normal professional labors and honor my efforts in the name of freedom, then I am filled with awe and am thankful beyond measure.But all the glory belongs to god.Reflections on Receiving the Award  Teng BiaoThe National Endowment for Democracy has, in the past, given this Democracy Award to Mr. Havel; and it is not a coincidience that his philosophy and actions have inspired countless rights defenders and intellectuals in China.The fates of people are interconnected, the violation of freedom and dignity to one individual is a violation to all. Freedom and democracy is the profession of all mankind.Yet, this reasoning as been called an empty “fantasy,” and gradually abandoned or mocked. The stories of persecution against people who have faced these challenges are unknown to the outside world, and many around them cannot understand their choice to struggle for freedom.Life must continue for those people living under authoritarian regimes, whether they are given praise or not. Where I am from, even to protect basic dignities, to obey the call of conscience inside one’s heart, requires tremendous effort and sacrifice.For example, in March of this year, when I was abducted by secret police, they covered my head, stuffed me into a car, brought me to a secret interrogation room, took out an already printed version of my article, and threatened: “just based on these articles, we can imprison you for five or ten years.” They confiscated my passport, cancelled my lawyer’s license, and again and again told me to keep my mouth shut.In several prisons in Guizhou, Jiangxi, Hebei, and Guangdong, I have had conversations with several prisoners wrongfully sentenced to death because of confessions extracted through torture. They all believe that one day they will be proven innocent and given freedom.I too have hope and believe that greater freedom will come to China one day, but not because time will bring change. Rather, it will be earned by the hard work of citizens.My thanks to the National Endowment for Democracy; you stand on the side of democracy and the people, not out of a cost-benefit analysis, but out of a commitment to shoulder a common responsibility toward humanity.While the fight for freedom itself enriches our spirit and makes us happy, because of the existence of NED and other international supporters’ voices that firmly guard universal values, those alienated, forgotten, and imprisoned people shall feel some joy and comfort.I know that if Chen Guangcheng could communicate from his prison cell he would join me in thanking all of you for standing with us in our struggle.Closing Remarks by Carl Gershman, President, the National Endowment for Democracy I have a special message that I want to read about Tom, that I think is relevant to this entire event. It’s from His Holiness the Dalai Lama, who considered Tom “a truly great friend of the Tibetan people.” And, of course, Tom was also a great friend of the NED and of everything we’re working to achieve.In his message, His Holiness speaks of Tom as ‘a determined speaker of truth, untiring and unwavering in his support for the important human rights issues of our time,” a person who contributed greatly to “highlighting the plight of the Tibetan people.” He especially recalls Tom’s words last October, during the presentation to the Dalai Lama of the Congressional Gold Medal, when he urged the Chinese government to respond positively to the Dalai Lama’s “efforts to resolve peacefully the problem in Tibet.”What has happened since then only confirms the wisdom of these words – the uprising in March, its violent suppression by government forces, the harsh denunciations of the Dalai Lama, and the rejection by the Chinese government of repeated calls for an independent international investigation into the protests and their aftermath. A statement issued on March 22 by leading Chinese intellectuals, among them Teng Biao whom we have honored this evening, echoed the words of Congressman Lantos, calling for dialogue with the Dalai Lama to “eliminate animosity and bring about national reconciliation,” and warning that “one-sided propaganda” and “a posture of aggressive nationalism” would only aggravate ethnic tensions and “harm China’s international image” as well as its “long-term goal of safeguarding national unity.”Regrettably, these words have also not been heeded, as shown by the Chinese government’s intention to have the Olympic torch pass provocatively through Lhasa this Saturday.But there is another kind of torch, representing an entirely different and more peaceful set of values. It is the torch held aloft by the Goddess of Democracy, a replica of which we have just presented to Chen Guangcheng, Teng Biao, Li Heping, Li Baiguang, Zhang Jianhong, Yao Fuxing, and Hu Shigen on behalf of all those who are fighting for human rights and democracy in China.The Goddess is a Chinese creation, adapted from our own Statue of Liberty, but it is now a universal symbol of democracy. Eight years ago, on the 10 th anniversary of the stolen elections in Burma, the NED presented a wood carving of the Goddess to the National League for Democracy, whose leader, the Nobel Laureate Aung San Suu Kyi, has been detained or imprisoned for most of the last 18 years and whose birthday will be observed in the Congress this Thursday by Tom’s Human Rights Caucus. Significantly, this replica of the Goddess, which I hold here, was carved by a craftsman in Nigeria soon after democracy was restored there following a similar stolen election in 1993.The NED has also presented this universal symbol of democracy to activists and leaders from the Czech Republic, Nicaragua, Serbia, Kosovo, Russia, Rwanda, Mexico, Hong Kong, Nigeria, Algeria, Somalia, Uzbekistan, Iran, North Korea, Afghanistan, Sierra Leone, Sudan, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Zimbabwe, Venezuela, Thailand, and Egypt. And of course, even before this evening, we have also presented the Goddess to Chinese activists – to Han Dongfang who is here with us now, as well as to Wei Jingsheng and Wang Dan.In addition, a 10-foot tall bronze replica of the Goddess stands just a few blocks from here as a memorial to the millions of victims of communism in countries around the world over the last century.One day, I believe, the Goddess will stand again in Tiananmen Square. The crushing of the protests there 19 years ago did not destroy the spirit of democracy in China or the movement that it continues to inspire. On the contrary, that movement stands on the foundation laid in Tiananmen Square and proceeds from a higher level because of that uprising and the sacrifice of those who perished. The activists we have honored this evening are proof of that. May we be worthy of their courage and determination and provide the international solidarity that they need. Let us rise to that challenge.In the January 2016 issue of the Journal of Democracy, NED Vice President for...The January 2019 edition of the Forum newsletter features...As part of its "Big Question" feature, the International...The April 2018 edition of the Forum newsletter explores...Donald K. Emmerson is director of the Southeast Asia Forum (SEAF) at the Shorenstein...
#Prospects and Conditions for a Transition to Democracy in Zimbabwe##On July 31-August 1, the International Forum cosponsored with Stanford University’s Center for Democracy, Development and the Rule of Law (CDDRL) a small workshop on prospects and conditions for a transition to democracy in Zimbabwe. Hosted by CDDRL in Palo Alto, the meeting brought practitioners together with leading experts on democratic transitions, including Michael Bratton (Michigan State), Richard Joseph (Northwestern), Pat Merloe (NDI), Valerie Bunce (Cornell), Harold Trinkunas (Naval Postgraduate School), Larry Diamond (CDDRL), and Diego Abente and Marc F. Plattner from the International Forum.
#Evaluating the Evaluators: Media Freedom Indexes and What They Measure##Featuring:John Burgess Author, Evaluating the Evaluators: Media Freedom Indexes and What They MeasureWith comments by:Lee B. Becker James M. Cox Jr. Center for International Mass Communication Training and Research at the University of Georgia’s Grady College of Journalism and Mass CommunicationLibby Morgan Center for Global Communication Studies at the University of Pennsylvania’s Annenberg School for CommunicationModerated by:Georges Fauriol National Endowment for Democracy Global studies that rank countries by media freedom figure prominently in civil liberty debates, aid programming, foreign policy decisions, and academic research. Given the impact of such media freedom indexes, academics have been studying the quality of the social science behind these studies. Some academics claim deficiencies in the indexes, including methodology, cultural bias, and a focus on “old media.” Many, however, go on to conclude that whatever their shortcomings, the studies produce fairly consistent findings over time and are credible, useful tools for tracking the evolution of media freedom worldwide. They also serve to highlight the crucial role of a free press in democracy and good governance. A new CIMA report, Evaluating the Evaluators: Media Freedom Indexes and What They Measure, examines the strengths and shortcomings of media freedom indexes-in particular IREX’s Media Sustainability Index, Freedom House’s Freedom of the Press, and Reporters Without Borders’ Press Freedom Index- and offers recommendations to improve these and other studies.John Burgess is a Washington writer specializing in international affairs and technology. He worked for 28 years at The Washington Post as a reporter and editor. In the late 1980s and early 1990s, he covered the early days of television’s transition toward digital broadcasting for the Post. His other jobs at the newspaper included aviation and transit writer, Tokyo bureau chief, technology editor, and Europe editor. His book, Stories in Stone, about the 11th Century inscription that unlocked the history of the civilization that built Cambodia’s Angkor Wat, was published this summer. Burgess has a bachelor’s degree from the University of Michigan.Lee B. Becker is a professor in the Grady College of Journalism and Mass Communication and director of the James M. Cox Jr. Center for International Mass Communication Training and Research at the University of Georgia. In addition to directing the Surveys of Journalism & Mass Communication, he also leads a research program examining the role of the media in democracy and governance, as well as evaluating media training programs designed to further democratization. Dr. Becker worked as a journalist at The Cincinnati Enquirer, The Wichita Eagle, The Lexington Herald, and The (Covington) Kentucky Post. Prior to joining the faculty at the University of Georgia, Dr. Becker was a member of the faculty at Ohio State University and Syracuse University, in addition to serving as a visiting professor at the Catholic University of Nijmegen in The Netherlands, the University of Goettingen and the Academy for Music and Theater in Germany.Libby Morgan is associate director of the Center for Global Communication Studies at the University of Pennsylvania’s Annenberg School for Communication, where she supports the development, planning, and administration of CGCS’s research, training, and policy activities. She has worked on a number of the center’s publication initiatives, including the forthcoming edited volume, Evaluating the Evaluators: Media Freedom Indexes and What They Measure; Broadcasting, Voice and Accountability; and Owning the Olympics: Narratives of the New China. She received a master’s degree in International Relations, with a concentration in Media and Communication, from Columbia University’s School of International and Public Affairs and received her bachelor’s degree from Dartmouth College.
#Democracy Service Medal Presentation to the Honorable Vin Weber##Democracy Service Medal Presentation to the Honorable Vin Weber from National Endowment for Democracy on Vimeo.The National Endowment for Democracy honored its former Chairman Vin Weber with the presentation of the Democracy Service Medal at a Capitol Hill ceremony on July 20, 2010.“Democracy needs people like Vin Weber who are fervent in their convictions, moderate in their behavior, and vigilant in their defense of democratic values,” said NED president Carl Gershman.“These are attributes that have anchored American democracy since its founding and that are today shared by people throughout the world who are striving to live in freedom.”Leading Democrats, including former secretary of state Madeleine Albright and House Foreign Affairs Committee chairman Howard Berman (D-CA), joined prominent Republicans like Senator John Kyl (R-AZ) and Congressman Paul Ryan (R-WI) to affirm that support for advancing democracy transcends partisan politics.  :: moreWelcomeJudy Shelton :: videoTributesMadeleine Albright :: video Howard Berman (D-CA) :: video Norm Coleman :: video David Dreier (R-CA) :: video Amy Klobuchar (D-MN) :: video Jon Kyl (R-AZ) :: video James Oberstar (D-MN) :: video Erik Paulsen (R-MN) :: video Donald Payne (D-NJ) :: video Dana Rohrabacher (R-CA) :: video Paul Ryan (R-WI) :: videoMedal Presentation :: videoCarl Gershman President, National Endowment for Democracy Read his tribute :: MORERemarksVin WeberThe National Endowment for Democracy is grateful for support from:Bloomberg LP SponsorClark and Weinstock/Omnicom BenefactorNancy and Ed Kutler Sandi Stuart and Mike Murray Betsy and David Weinstock SupportersSpecial thanks to Ed Kutler
#Community of Democracies Tenth Anniversary##July 2-4, 2010 Krakow, PolandIn July, 2010, 87 official delegations and more than 200 civil society activists from around the world gathered in Krakow, Poland to celebrate the 10th anniversary of the Community of Democracies (CD), recommit to the principles of its Warsaw Declaration, and to discuss improving and expanding its work. Attendees included US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and the Polish Solidarity leader Lech Wałesa.By assisting the CD’s International Steering Committee and Permanent Secretariat, and covering travel costs to Krakow, NED was able to significantly increase the civil society representation at the event: Read more: NED Supports Participation of Young Activists and Diplomats in the Community of DemocraciesThe efforts of the World Movement for Democracy in Defending Civil Society received an important boost from US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton when she used a keynote speech to focus on the importance of civil society in advancing democracy, and on the growing challenges posed by restrictive legal environments. Read more: ‘Defending Civil Society’ Efforts Boosted by Clinton Speech in Krakow
#Can Anyone Hear Us? Voices from the 2009 Unrest in Urumchi##Panel I – Can Anyone Hear Us? Voices from the 2009 Unrest in Urumchi from National Endowment for Democracy on Vimeo.and a roundtable discussion on:Uyghur-Han Tensions: Causes and ConsequencesSee original press release :: moreOn July 5, 2009, thousands of young Uyghur protestors, holding the red flags of the People’s Republic of China, peacefully took to the streets of Urumchi to protest against the beating and killing of several Uyghur migrant workers a week earlier at a toy factory in Guangdong province and to demand respect for the human rights of the Uyghur people. Two days later, according to Chinese government media, the death toll from street riots stood at 197 (of whom the vast majority were reported to be Han Chinese), with 1,700 injured.  Chinese President Hu Jintao left the G8 Summit in Rome early and returned to Beijing to manage the unrest, one of the worst cases of inter-ethnic violence in the history of the People’s Republic of China. In the aftermath of the violence, independent observers voiced concerns about a large number of deaths of Uyghurs as well as Han Chinese, as well as sweeping detentions of young men in Urumchi and other cities, with 26 death sentences and nine executions officially reported to date.  In advance of the one-year anniversary of the Urumchi unrest, analysts assessed the causes of the transformation of peaceful demonstrations into deadly inter-ethnic violence, government policy responses to the unrest, the effect of those policies on Uyghur and Han populations in Xinjiang, and the likely outcomes of the May 2010 Xinjiang Work Conference hosted by Chinese President Hu Jintao.2:00 – Report Launch:Can Anyone Hear Us?  Voices from the 2009 Unrest in Urumchi.  What Happened?  From July 5 through the September “syringe attacks.”Amy Reger, Researcher, Uyghur Human Rights Project Henryk Szadziewski, Project Manager, Uyghur Human Rights Project    **Special Feature:  Testimony of two eyewitnesses    With comments by: Dr. Sophie Richardson, Advocacy Director for Asia, Human Rights Watch  Clothilde Le Coz, Washington Director, Reporters Without Borders     Moderator: Brian Joseph, Senior Director for Asia and Global Programs, NED3:15 – Coffee Break3:30 – Keynote Remarks: Statement from Rebiya Kadeer, read by Omer Kanat, Vice President, World Uyghur Congress (see video/read statement :: more) Mr. Carl Gershman, President, National Endowment for Democracy (see video :: more)4:00 – Roundtable Discussion (see video :: more):Chinese government policy, developments on the ground, international perspectives.  Are the problems in Xinjiang and Tibet unique to ethnic minorities, or are there under-explored commonalities with other marginalized communities in China?Dr. Dru Gladney, President, Pacific Basin Institute Bhuchung Tsering, Vice President, International Campaign for Tibet Dr. Yang Jianli, President, Initiatives for China Hans Hogrefe, Democratic Staff Director, Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission Kara Abramson, Advocacy Director, Congressional-Executive Commission on China Dr. Sophie Richardson, Advocacy Director for Asia, Human Rights WatchModerator: Louisa Greve, Vice President for Asia, MENA, and Global Programs, NED5:30 – CloseEnding the silence on China’s Uighur repression, by Carl Gershman, The Washington Post, July 5, 2010.Uighurs Mark Anniversary of Deadly Protests in China, by William Ide, Voice of America, July 5, 2010.NED President Addresses Conference on Uyghur Repression and Unrest, Initiatives for China, July 2, 2010.
#Democracy in East Asia: An Elephant’s Graveyard?##Featuring:Benjamin Reilly Reagan-Fascell Democracy FellowModerated by:Marc F. Plattner International Forum for Democratic StudiesRecent developments in East Asia challenge widely-accepted theories about democracy and democratization. In Southeast Asia in particular, expectations about preconditions for democracy, the role of the middle class, the relationship between development and democracy, and the effects of political institutions have all been called into question. Nonetheless, a convergence of democratic reforms across East Asia appears to be ushering in an identifiably Asian approach to democratic institutions and democracy promotion. In his presentation, Dr. Benjamin Reilly explained these competing trends across Northeast and Southeast Asia, and addressed the broader implications of this distinctive process of democratization in East Asia.Benjamin Reilly is professor of political science at the Australian National University and a visiting professor at Johns Hopkins University-SAIS. He is the author of six books and over 60 journal articles and book chapters on issues of democratization, constitutional reform, party politics, electoral system design and conflict management, and has advised many governments and international organizations on these subjects. His latest books are a study of democratization and political reform in Asia and the Pacific, Democracy and Diversity: Political Engineering in the Asia-Pacific (Oxford University Press, 2006), and an edited volume, Political Parties in Conflict-Prone Societies (United Nations University Press, 2008). In addition to his academic career, he has also served with the United Nations, International IDEA and the Australian government. For the past four years he has served as the director of the Centre for Democratic Institutions, Australia’s democracy promotion organization.
#Agenda: One Year Later: Prospects for a Democratic Transition in Iran#July 10, 2010# Opening Statements   Senator Ted Kaufman (see video/read remarks) Senator John McCain (see video/read remarks)   Panel I: Lessons from Other Transitions to DemocracyPresenters  Larry Diamond, Stanford University (see video) Dan Brumberg, Georgetown University (see video)Commentators  Abbas Milani, Stanford University (see video) Azar Nafisi, Johns Hopkins University (see video)Moderator  Marc Plattner, National Endowment for Democracy (see video/read remarks)Questions and Discussion from Panel I   Panel II: The Road Ahead – Strategic Challenges for the Democratic Movement in IranPresenters  Ladan Boroumand, The Abdorrahman Boroumand Foundation (see videoe) Nikahang Kowsar, Iranian satirist and blogger (see video) Ali Akbar Mousavi, Stanford University (see video) Moderator  Mahnaz Afkhami, Women’s Learning Partnership (see introduction / see remarks)Questions and Discussion from Panel IIFilm screening: For Neda  The new HBO documentary tells the personal story of Neda Agha-Soltan’s life and tragic death in the context of the protests following the presidential elections last year in Iran. Writing for Policy Options, NED Vice President for Studies and Analysis Christopher...The January 2019 edition of the Forum newsletter features...In a widely discussed article in the July 2016 issue...Former Czech President Vaclav Havel, former US Secretary...Authoritarianism Goes Global gained much attention in Europe as co-editors Marc...
#Remembering Floribert Chebeya#July 6, 2010#By Dave PetersonFloribert’s murder is an enormous outrage.  He was undoubtedly Congo’s most prominent, committed, courageous human rights activist.  From his early years when he won the Reebok Human Rights awards in 1992 for fighting the Mobutu dictatorship, through the national conference process, the civil war, the Laurent Kabila regime, the Congolese elections, and the current dispensation, which continues to deteriorate – Floribert persevered, finally paying the ultimate price for his vision of a free and democratic Congo.  He should be remembered as one of Congo’s greatest freedom fighters, a leader of Africa’s democratic movement, and an international human rights giant.  This is a terrible loss.  His death must not be in vain.  His life’s work must continue. I first met Floribert about 20 years ago when he was visiting the U.S. and the Endowment made its first grant to the organization he led, Le Voix des Sans Voix, in 1991 for $31,289, “to support the VSV’s efforts to increase the understanding of and commitment to human rights and democracy in Zaire through a civic education program that includes a monthly bulletin, audiovisual materials, and public meetings.”  It was the first grant NED made in Zaire, along with one to the Ligue Zairois des Droits de l’Homme, which folded a few years later.  But VSV carried on and has continued to receive NED support ever since, one of a small elite.  NED’s program in Congo is now our largest in Africa, and there can be no question that Floribert paved the way and set the standard for all that followed. Floribert was both gentle and fierce.  His small stature, soft voice, thick glasses and warm smile belied the toughness and determination that landed him in and out of detention on multiple occasions, and that elevated him to be the widely acknowledged leader of Congo’s human rights movement in networks such as Droits de l’Homme Maintentant, and mentor to scores of human rights NGOs across the country. When the pressure and threats became too great, Floribert would send his wife and children across the river to Brazzaville, but he stayed behind in Kinshasa to continue his work.  He lived modestly, and if he had political ambitions, he never pursued them.  His family had to move from time to time for security reasons, but the occasions when I was honored to have dinner at his home were filled with the love and warmth of his devoted wife and children. When he spoke before mass audiences his eloquence and passion were captivating, but unlike so many other tribunes of the people, his integrity was incorruptible, he never lost his connection with the Congolese people whose voice he had become.  I sat with him once as he interviewed an alleged recent victim of human rights abuse.  He was gentle, yet probing, and rather than rushing to use her as a convenient weapon against the authorities, determined that her case was doubtful, but he promised to follow up with her later.  He and the staff of VSV investigated and sought redress for hundreds of such cases. Floribert was a realist.  He understood politics.  But he never sacrificed principles.  He was as unafraid to denounce American policies he saw as wrong as he was those of his own government.  When most other Congolese, including some human rights advocates, were denouncing the Tutsis and Banyamulenge after the Rwandan invasion, Floribert defended the rights of innocent civilians who were targets of human rights abuse no matter what their ethnicity.   He had enormous energy.  Leading a committed team, Voix de Sans Voix has issued hundreds of press statements over the years, meticulously documenting human rights abuses and denouncing them.  VSV has likewise held hundreds of workshops, training conferences, civic education events, and campaigns.  Floribert undoubtedly inspired hundreds of activists throughout the country who still cite VSV for getting them off the ground, showing them how to do human rights work, and counseling them on strategy.  He distributed his Reebok Human Rights Award among other civil society organizations rather than keeping it for himself or even his own organization.  His impact on the human rights movement and the understanding and appreciation for democracy in Congo was profound. Whether or not the gunman or the person who gave the orders is ever identified, we know who killed Floribert Chebeya.  The Congolese political system has become increasingly repressive, human rights organizations are continually threatened, journalists have been murdered, the political opposition emasculated, and the rule of law flouted.  In the east the vicious killings, looting, and mass rapes committed by the Congolese army continue unabated.  The UN peacekeepers are being pressed to leave, and the prospects for any democratic elections in the future are fading.  The Congolese people have lost one of their most ardent defenders.  Floribert will be remembered among the pantheon of African martyrs and freedom fighters such as Patrice Lumumba, Steve Biko, and Tom Mboya.  But those who committed this crime must not go unpunished.  Floribert’s  vision of a free and democratic Congo must be preserved.  Floribert would have demanded no less.
#Bloggers Behind Bars: In honor of World Press Freedom Day, May 3, 2010##Bloggers Behind Bars – Remarks by Robert Mahoney from CIMA on Vimeo.In honor of World Press Freedom Day on May 3, 2010, the National Endowment for Democracy’s Center for International Media Assistance hosted a morning of discussions on Capitol Hill entitled “Bloggers Behind Bars.” At a time when the number of online journalists in prison almost surpasses the number of jailed traditional print and broadcast journalists, press freedom seems more elusive in some parts of the world than ever before. Speakers, including members of Congress and human rights activists, addressed the threats that online journalists face worldwide.As one of the day’s speakers observed, “the battle for press freedom has moved online.” Robert Mahoney of the Committee to Protect Journalists noted that though the internet has empowered reporters working under repressive regimes, “this new freedom has brought its own set of dangers and vulnerabilities,” particularly since governments can “simply halt the circulation of information by pulling the plug on the Web.”“The battle for press freedom has moved online.”Bloggers can be silenced in other ways, too, and those without international prominence are at risk for intimidation, abduction and worse. Mahoney cautioned that online journalists are especially vulnerable because most are independent freelance writers working without the support and protection of an established media company.One blogger with first-hand knowledge of this harsh reality was Mahoney’s co-panelist, Omid Memarian, an Iranian blogger who was imprisoned for three months for his work reporting on the 2009 Iranian elections. However, Memarian called his imprisonment “a privilege” because it gave him a better understanding of what bloggers experience in jail. He informed the audience that many journalists in Iran are locked up with criminals to “humiliate them and put pressure on them in order to make them forget about blogging when they leave prison.”Tactics for silencing online journalists differ by country, as Robert Faris of Harvard’s Berkman Center explained. Internet filtering is very common in Syria and Tunisia, he said, while in Egypt the government goes after individual online journalists directly. And as Faris noted, jailing bloggers has a deeply “chilling effect” on internet press freedom.“It’s a cat and mouse game…but there are ways to survive.”However, there are still many ways for online journalists to subvert government censorship. Panelist Tienchi Martin-Liao of the Independent Chinese PEN Center observed that bloggers can register several blogs and use pseudonyms. Bloggers in China will often have a blog on a server outside China if they have access to software that allows them to get past the government’s firewall. Writers will also avoid sensitive words that could be picked up by government censors, or make modifications to the sensitive words by adding extra letters. “It’s a cat and mouse game,” Martin-Liao admitted, “but there are ways to survive.”The panelists agreed that the protection of online journalists and the fight against internet censorship will require an international effort. “This is a political problem that ultimately needs a political solution,” argued Faris. Mahoney agreed, stating that, “The internet by its very nature is global. No one actor on its own can bring about the desired outcome.”NED President Carl Gershman also addressed the nearly 100 attendees, and the discussion included remarks by Congressman Adam Schiff and Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen. Both Representatives highlighted the important role that independent media play in building and sustaining democracies, and discussed the possibility of the U.S. government spotlighting countries engaged in internet censorship and suppressing independent voices online.
#IN REMEMBRANCE OF FLORIBERT CHEBEYA#July 1, 2010# Washington, D.C.It is with deep sadness that I learned today of the apparent assassination of Floribert Chebeya, the Doyen of the Congolese human rights community.  I have known and admired Floribert for nearly 20 years. I last saw him in 2007 when he visited Washington and I was between assignments and we talked at length about the human rights challenges in DRC.  Floribert was a human rights lifer, having started out as a student human rights activist in 1980s as an underground organizer during the height of Mobutu Sese Seko’s repressive regime.  Despite his long tenure, he never lost his sense of optimism that things should and, indeed, could change. After the political opening in 1991, the organization that he founded, the Voice of the Voiceless (VSV) led the human rights surge that highlighted the deplorable human rights conditions in the country.  Although all human rights reports in what was then Zaire were by nature political, VSV focused on cases of ordinary Kinshasa residents who were often the victims of successive brutal regimes. VSV chose the cases of ordinary citizens as its raison d’etre.  It wasn’t the glamorous political fare but it was a key niche. But at the same time he was not afraid of the sensitive cases. VSV investigated political murders and political prisoners including those accused of having killed Laurent Kabila and Bunda dia Kongo.  It is possible that his death resulted from his work on of these politically charged cases. But in a greater sense, Floribert represented a classic case of risk to the state not because of a single case but because he dared speak the truth and his often lone voice became a threat to those who knew he was documenting their nefarious deeds.Floribert, with his oversized glasses and studious demeanor, often would go to the police military and security offices himself to ask about cases. He had a driver, (who is still missing) but he owned an aged vehicle that seemed to be constantly in the repair shop. Floribert was old school, and an incessant letter writer, forever asking the Zairian/ Congolese government to explain the inexplicable; seeking a rationale for the latest incident of arbitrary detention, torture or murder. Sometimes the government would relent and release the hapless victims.  Most of the time, they would respond by threatening him.  Floribert was arrested, detained, and threatened numerous times over the last two decades. His last major run in with the State security services ended up with him having a gun put to his head, and dozens of times he took study trips to escape threats about reports issued by VSV. He knew his work was risky, and more than once his wife and family begged him to do something else, but he was committed to an ideal. The offices of VSV were always filled with ordinary citizens and family members of victims of human rights abuse.  On any given day you could also usually find international visitors and diplomats who had come to hear Floribert’s earnest take on the human rights situation.   In 1992, he won the Reebok Human Rights Award for young human rights activists and with it a $25,000 prize. In typical Floribert fashion, he donated the money to several other local human rights groups and created a victim’s fund to help victims of human rights abuse.He leaves behind a wife and six children, and an army of admirers, friends and colleagues, in DRC, around Africa, and here in DC. Floribert Chebeya, may his soul rest in peace, was truly a human rights hero.
#Tribute from Marc Plattner to Francis Fukuyama#June 22, 2010#It is a great honor for me to speak to you tonight in praise of Francis Fukuyama. Frank was a friend of mine even before he accepted an invitation to join the Editorial Board of the JoD in 1993. Given tonight’s setting and occasion, however, I feel compelled to begin my remarks with what he has done for this institution. His contribution to the success of the Journal has been inestimable. In addition to being an engaged and unfailingly helpful member of the Editorial Board, he has been one of our most frequent contributors—and his articles invariably draw wide attention. Frank is the only person who has been on the panel celebrating each of the JoD’s milestones—our fifth, tenth, fifteenth, and twentieth anniversary issues.  It was his association with the Journal that eventually led to Frank’s being invited to join the Board of Directors of the Journal’s parent organization. During his maximum of three three-year terms as a NED Board member, Frank served the organization in a great variety of ways. I will leave it to Carl to describe his other contributions, and will limit myself just to saying a few words about what he has done for the International Forum. He has been a superb chairman of the Board committee on fellowships, playing a significant role in overseeing the development of the Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellows progam. He also helped to develop the annual Seymour Martin Lipset Lecture on Democracy in the World. Luckily, membership on the JoD Editorial Board and the Lipset Lecture selection committee is not term-limited, so we look forward to Frank’s continuing collaboration. A few weeks ago I had the privilege of attending Frank’s farewell lecture at SAIS. He gave a profound and fascinating talk, and answered questions with great precision and verve. But what struck me most was the atmosphere in the hall, which was filled to overflowing with his colleagues and students. The respect and even love that they felt for him was palpable—and not just in the T-shirts worn by many in the audience bearing his likeness and the words “Let’s be Frank.” I know that similar feelings are shared by the Forum and JoD staff, as well as many others at NED—they too love working with Frank.  Why is that? Well, first of all, he’s so damn smart and he always has something interesting to say, no matter what the subject. And second, despite his international renown, he is remarkably modest and approachable. His fame abroad, by the way, really is a little hard to grasp for those accustomed to seeing him all the time here in Washington, where sometimes he seems to be regarded as just another academic and policy wonk. In Latin America and Europe—and I would guess in Asia as well—he is treated as an intellectual rock star, and is much sought after by the media. In fact, his fame here at home is probably diminished precisely because he is so willing to participate in meetings and conferences and to engage in such a wide range of activities. Moreover, if he says he will write something for you or will attend your meeting, you can be very sure that he will come through. This is not the proper occasion for serious reflection on Fukuyama the thinker, but perhaps a few sentences on the nature of Frank’s work would not be out of place. He is of course still best known as the author of The End of History and the Last Man, a book that seemed not to leave much room for a sequel. Yet he followed it up with a succession of important and influential books on such diverse topics as trust, social order, biotechnology, state-building, and American foreign policy. And he is now well advanced on a two-volume work that examines political developments from ancient civilizations up through the present day. As he said in his farewell lecture at SAIS, after becoming director of the International Development Program there, he realized that this subject was really his central interest. Only he understands the field of development in its broadest sense, one that not only cuts across contemporary disciplinary boundaries in the social sciences but embraces law, history, philosophy, and religion as well.  In the extraordinary range of his interests and the amazing breadth of his learning, Frank most resembles the great social theorists of the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries—thinkers like Durkheim, Tonnies, and Weber. Among the eminent social scientists of the past half-century, he is perhaps closest to such figures as Seymour Martin Lipset and Samuel Huntington. In his own generation, I can think of no one who can compare with him in the originality of his thought or the scope and ambition of his intellectual enterprise. It is truly a privilege for me to have him as a friend and colleague, and it has been a remarkable stroke of good fortune for the NED to have had him as a guide.OCT 6, 2014Francis Fukuyama on "The Governance Agenda and Democratic...On Tuesday June 17, the National Endowment for Democracy...Building on their earlier article, "The Danger of Deconsolidation:...Accepting the Medal, Rep. Wolf focused on the courage...NED President Carl Gershman presents Mustafa Dzhemilev...Retiring NED Vice Chairman Thomas R. Donahue was honored by the Endowment with...
#Dalai Lama Honored with NED Democracy Service Medal at Library of Congress#June 21, 2010#The National Endowment for Democracy (NED) will present His Holiness the Dalai Lama with the Democracy Service Medal in recognition of the Tibetan spiritual leader’s commitment to advancing the principles of democracy and human dignity on Friday, February 19, 2010 at 10:30 am in the Coolidge Auditorium at the Library of Congress. The event is open to press and coverage is invited.The Dalai Lama is expected to address an audience of approximately 500 at his only public appearance during his upcoming Washington visit.Commenting on the significance of the honor for the Dalai Lama and the Tibetan people, NED President Carl Gershman said, “The struggle of the Tibetan people to preserve their culture is world renowned.  What is little known, however, is that the Dalai Lama, even before leaving Tibet, sought to implement significant reforms in the system of government. Only in exile was the Dalai Lama able to implement those reforms. Today, the Tibetan community in exile operates under a democratic constitution, with an elected National Assembly and a Supreme Court, with day-to-day powers vested in an elected prime minister. The Dalai Lama himself has often said that it is not enough to oppose Chinese totalitarianism, but that it is necessary to offer a democratic alternative.Because the Tibetan people have transformed their suffering into a source of moral strength, they have become an inspiration to others who have suffered injustice.”WHAT: National Endowment for Democracy presents the Dalai Lama with the Democracy Service Medal.WHO: His Holiness the Dalai Lama, National Endowment for Democracy (NED) Chairman Richard Gephardt and NED President Carl Gershman, Librarian of Congress James H. BillingtonWHEN: Friday, February 19, 2010 at 10:30 am. We request that equipment be pre-set in place by 9:00 am.WHERE: Coolidge Auditorium at the Thomas Jefferson Building of   the Library of Congress, 101 Independence Ave, SE 
#Tribute from Larry Diamond to Francis Fukuyama#June 20, 2010#Presentation of the Democracy Service Medal to Francis Fukuyama from National Endowment for Democracy on Vimeo.I am in a natural but also awkward position here, because in a way I represent the bridge between where Frank Fukuyama has been and where he is going.  I feel a bit guilty that our Center on Democracy, Development and the Rule of Law at Stanford University has lured Frank away to take up a new endowed chair as the Olivier Nomellini Senior Fellow at the Freeman Spogli Institute for International Studies.  Guilty, not only because the Nitze School of Advanced International Studies is such a wonderful institution—with which we at the Journal and the NED have had warm, cooperative relations for more than two decades—but also because Frank has been such a dynamic, influential, and sober voice here in Washington on issues of political and economic development and American foreign policy.  Yet, I know he will not cease to be that, or to be present frequently in Washington for these debates.  All I can say from personal experience, Frank, is:  Welcome to the club of frequent flyers travelling from the San Francisco Bay Area to Washington, Dulles. I also know from many years of personal experience what a profound intellectual and a wonderful human being NED is losing from the Board, SAIS is losing from its faculty, and Stanford is gaining.  As everyone here is keenly aware, Frank is a truly original and indeed seminal thinker.  His scholarship has been wide-ranging but also densely interconnected.  His writings on global political developments and models post cold-war, on social trust and its contributions to development, on state-building, economic development, democracy promotion, and so much more have all been characterized by an amazing propensity for clarity of theoretical argument and for thinking outside of established categories and assumptions, and yet also a prodigious capacity for gathering and mobilizing evidence.  Few scholars in the world can move across regions as gracefully and trenchantly as Frank does, with his ability to speak in impressive scholarly depth about East Asia or Latin America—or the intricacies of political culture and state-building in Papua New Guinea, where he has recently been doing field research.  I believe that the work Frank is doing now on how states and political systems form and evolve will represent the most important contribution to our basic theorizing about political development since Sam Huntington’s trail-blazing work in the 1960s and early 70s.  And I think there is no other political sociologist—and that is, with admiration, what I would call Frank—who more closely approaches our late friend Seymour Martin Lipset in range of scholarly knowledge and achievement and in depth of original insights than Frank. I think it is no accident that Frank’s politics, like Sam’s and Marty’s, have tended toward the pragmatic center and also been hard to predict.  Like the two of them, his loyalty has not been to a party or ideology but to the evidence and realities, weighed against a certain core of values—not least the ones that define the National Endowment for Democracy.   That Frank was a student of Huntington’s at Harvard and a colleague of Marty’s at George Mason—and personally close to both of them until their deaths in recent years—underscores how much he lies at a unique and irreplaceable intersection of intellectual pathways and traditions.  I know for a fact, as someone who was close to Marty, that there was no colleague for whom he had greater intellectual admiration than Frank. In this respect, and many more, we have been extremely fortunate to have had Frank as a member of the Journal editorial board for the majority of our years.  It is not just that Frank is full of ideas and sage advice, or that he is widely connected to so many issues and authors.  It is also that he is the model of a great colleague:   Wise in his judgment, generous with his time, innovative in his ideas, constructive in his criticism, and disarmingly modest for someone so accomplished.  And oh yes, funny and irreverent as well.  I am sure this is also why he has been such a widely popular and admired professor at SAIS.   Frank, thank you for your service to the Journal, the NED, and the broader community of democratic scholarship and ideas.  It is a thrill to know that you will soon be joining us at Stanford, and I am sure it is a comfort to this audience to know that you will continue to be a presence here in Washington as well.
#Presentation of the Democracy Service Medal to Tenzin Gyatso, the XIV Dalai Lama of Tibet#February 13, 2010#Thank you, James Billington, our distinguished Librarian of Congress, for those warm words of welcome. And what a marvelous privilege to be here this morning in the world’s largest library, our nation’s oldest cultural institution – an institution dedicated to preserving a universal collection of knowledge and creativity for future generations.It is my pleasure, as Vice-Chair of the Board of Directors of the National Endowment for Democracy, to likewise welcome you all for this very special presentation today. Our Chairman, Richard Gephardt, was unable to be here, to his great regret, as he would have loved to greet our guest of honor, with whom he’s had the opportunity to meet on several occasions during his tenure as Majority Leader, and Minority Leader, of the U.S. House of Representatives. Chairman Gephardt has long been a powerful voice for fairness, justice, and tolerance. He is committed to the belief that basic human rights are not a mere cultural preference, but rather the reflection of universal aspirations toward the attainment of individual dignity.The National Endowment for Democracy was founded in 1983, and since then, the Endowment has supported the work of democrats throughout the world. That’s with a small “d”…. The Endowment is absolutely bipartisan; truly bipartisan. Our funding comes from the American citizenry, and is provided to us through the U.S. Congress, for which we are most grateful. Our grants program today supports over 1200 projects annually covering a full range of activities related to democratic development and the establishment of democratic institutions.I am proud to report that “NED” – the acronym by which we are known – has supported the democratic aspirations of the Tibetan people for more than 20 years. Our projects have been related to building democratic awareness and institutions on the part of those in exile – and to increase meaningful interaction between Tibetans and Chinese.In short, it is NED’s mission – worldwide – to help people who embrace democratic values, who are peaceful advocates for fundamental human rights, and who share a common desire to live in a world that is free and democratic..The Democracy Service Medal was created by the Board of Directors of the National Endowment for Democracy to recognize individuals who have made significant contributions to the progress of democracy around the world. It was first presented in April 1999 on the Tenth Anniversary of the Roundtable Agreement that led to Poland’s peaceful transition to democracy.The medallion is made of cast bronze, the engraving on it reads simply, “For Service in the Cause of Democracy.” It was awarded to Lech Walesa, founder of the Solidarity Trade Union movement who became President of Poland – and to Lane Kirkland, the former AFL-CIO President, who was also a principal founder of the National Endowment for Democracy.The medal has since been awarded to a very select few of exemplary individuals, here and abroad, who have demonstrated their dedication to the advancement of freedom, and human rights – and to the expansion of democratic institutions such as freedom of the press; freedom of assembly; honest and open elections; rule of law.And now, before proceeding to the presentation of the medal to our honored guest, I would like to take a few moments to recognize some people in our audience today and to express our thanks, our deep thanks, to the Hurford Foundation for sponsoring this event. We are honored to have with us the Foundation’s president, Robert Miller, who is also a member of NED’s Board of Directors and an officer. And we would like to say thanks, too, to Jayne Kurzman, who serves with Bob on the Hurford Foundation’s Board. Will both of you please stand and be recognized?I would also like to recognize Will Taft, Chairman of the Board of Directors of Freedom House (if he would please stand). Will Taft is a man who has been at the center of U.S. decisionmaking, and he’s a principled advocate for freedom. For the past two days, Freedom House has been co-sponsoring a human rights summit together with the organization, Human Rights First, chaired by William Zabel (please stand.) And also with us today are Jennifer Windsor, Executive Director of Freedom House, and Elisa Massimino, the President and CEO of Human Rights First. In fact, we offer a warm welcome to the human rihts defenders from around the world who have gathered for that summit and who honor us with their presence today.I would also like to recognize Allen Weinstein, the distinguished former Archivist of the United States (if he will stand, please.) Allen Weinstein has done so much to ensure free and fair elections in the Philippines, in Central America, and throughout the world – helping struggling democracies to meet the standards of electoral integrity. And he played an important role in the founding of NED.Paula Dobriansky…a remarkable woman (please stand). Paula was the Under Secretary of State for Democracy and Global Affairs from 2001 to 2009, during which time she was also Special Coordinator for Tibet. Paula Dobriansky is the recipient of the State Department’s highest honor – the Secretary’s Distinguished Service Medal. And we’re proud to note that Paula served as Vice-Chair of the NED Board. Thank you so much.Let me mention, too, that Will Taft’s late wife, Julia, was known for her outstanding work on issues related to refugees and disaster relief. She served as the U.S. Special Coordinator for Tibet. And she was a highly-valued member of NED’s Board of Directors from 1994 to 1998.And finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to recognize someone who…well, he’s instantly recognizable to millions…the esteemed actor Richard Gere (please stand). Who also happens to be one of the most loyal and influential activists dedicated to the well-being of the Tibetan people. Richard Gere chairs the International Campaign for Tibet, an organization that works tirelessly to promote human rights and democratic freedoms for the people of Tibet. A well-known humanitarian, Richard Gere is a poignant speaker on behalf of human rights, cultural preservation, and helping disadvantaged communities worldwide. Wonderful to have you here with us today and we appreciate working closely with our good friends at the ICT in organizing this event.There are so many accomplished and truly distinguished guests in our audience today – it’s an embarrassment of riches – and I hope you will forgive me for not being able to properly acknowledge your presence. But we have a very special purpose before us today.And we now proceed to the presentation of the Democracy Service Medal to our most honored guest, His Holiness, the Dalai Lama – who has very kindly consented to take written questions after the awarding of the medal and foling his initial comments.The President of the National Endowment for Democracy – Carl Gershman – will offer the democracy tribute. And it’s very fitting that he do so. For under Carl’s leadership, NED has grown into the premier democracy promotion organization in the world.Carl Gershman is the epitome of a grass-roots democracy activist on a global scale – quite literally. He is one of the founders of the World Movement for Democracy and is himself a past recipient of the Light of Truth Award presented by the International Campaign for Tibet. In accepting that award, five years ago, Carl made this observation, and I quote: “There has sometimes been a tendency to forget that aiding democracy is fundamentally a moral vocation, a calling that involves helping people who are fighting for freedom and the right to fulfil their potential as human beings. Our connection with the Tibetan movement, and through it with His Holiness the Dalai Lama and the values he defends and embodies, helps remind us of who we are, what we’re all about, and why we do what we do.”Anyone who knows Carl Gershman knows that he does what he does out of deep compassion, steadfast commitment – and an innate sense of justice. Carl, if you would please come to the podium now to make the award.Your Holiness, we thank you for your wonderful and enlightening comments. We’re all very grateful that you chose to be here with us this morning. And we thank you for your willingness to take questions from our audience. If you will permit, I will read the first one and ask for your response, please.I very much regret to say, that, due to the fact that His Holiness has a tight travel schedule he must adhere to, we cannot ask any additional questions. We thank you so much for your generous time spent here. What a privilege it’s been, amazing. Reading your wonderful book, The Art of Happiness, many years ago…like many of you, I’m sure, I never dreamed I would get to hear you in person. But I remember what you stated in that book: That love and compassion and a sense of universal responsibility are the sources of peace and happiness. You’re given us a great deal of happiness here today, and we thank you.Ladies and Gentlemen, We’re going to let the Dalai Lama’s entourage exit first, so if you would please stay in your seats. As a special gift to each one of you, our partners at the International Campaign for Tibet have arranged to give all those present today a beautiful calendar with exquisite photographs. Let me take this opportunity to thank Dr. Billington and his staff here at the Library of Congress for their warm hospitality. It’s been delightful. I understand, too, that the Library has arranged to display some of its extraordinary Tibetan collection down the hall, so in a few moments (and thank you again for waiting) you’ll have the opportunity to view those treasures on your way out. Thank you all. Good afternoon.  Remarks by Carl Gershman at Voices from the Congo: The Road Ahead.Accepting the Medal, Rep. Wolf focused on the courage...Czech and Slovak representatives joined members of...REMARKS OF NED PRESIDENT CARL GERSHMAN AT THE PRESENTATION...Remarks by NED President Carl Gershman to The Seventh...The National Endowment for Democracy (NED) presented His Holiness the Dalai...
#Ivana Howard, Program Officer for Central and Eastern Europe  Statement before the Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe – United States Congress#January 28, 2010#Statement before the Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe – United States CongressMr. Chairman and Distinguished Members of the Commission:Thank you for the opportunity to address you today and discuss the latest developments in the Western Balkans. The National Endowment for Democracy (NED) is grateful for your committed interest in the region, ongoing support, and recognition of the need for continued international attention to the problems facing the Balkans.I have been asked to speak today about democratic developments and civil society in all Western Balkan countries. Although I will devote most of my testimony to Bosnia and Herzegovina, the country which arguably deserves the greatest consideration at the moment, I will first briefly review the situation in other countries, from the perspective of civil society and the challenges it faces.Almost exactly a year ago, I was invited to brief the Commission on the state of democracy in Serbia, and I had little reason for optimism. The attacks on the U.S. Embassy, prompted by Kosovo’s declaration of independence, threats against and attacks on human rights defenders and the media, and the uncertain outcome of the upcoming elections, painted a grim picture. Yet today, I can say that I am cautiously optimistic about Serbia. After the May 2008 elections and formation of the new government coalition, one that is awkward but stable, a leading war criminal was arrested and delivered to The Hague, signaling to the EU and the rest of the world that Serbia was ready to move forward. Since then, a number of important laws were adopted, including a much needed anti-discrimination law, which was passed despite strong objections by the church and conservative parties. NED’s grantees also report a better relationship with the new government and more interest in cooperating with and supporting the NGO sector.A number of challenges remain, however, including full cooperation with the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY), a workable solution for Serbia’s future relations with Kosovo, and a stronger commitment to the reforms necessary for full Euro-Atlantic integration. And despite signs of improvement, continued attention needs to be devoted to the status of civil society in Serbia, especially the treatment of the human rights defenders and the media. Verbal or even physical violence is not uncommon, as witnessed several days ago when four journalists were attacked by a radical group organizing a commemoration of the 10-year anniversary of NATO bombing.Increased pressure on the media and NGOs is not unique to Serbia. In preparing for my testimony, I solicited opinions from current and former NED grantees. Almost without exception, I heard grave concerns about freedom of information and expression.This was the case in Kosovo, for example, where attempts to expose endemic corruption are often met with fierce resistance by public officials, who do not shy away from exerting political or financial pressure on watchdog NGOs or investigative media. The Radio Television of Kosovo (RTK), the country’s PBS, is facing constant attempts by the government to control it. As a result, journalists tend to self-censor their work and are cautious in criticizing public officials. Rare are the media organizations with the capacity, skills, and ability to engage in serious investigative reporting. The exception is the Balkan Investigative Reporting Network (BIRN), a NED grantee, which spotlights cases of corruption or government inefficiency without fear of political or financial repercussion.The situation is similar in neighboring Montenegro, where a NED grantee MANS was recently accused by a government official of undermining the state because of its principled and uncompromising work in exposing cases of corruption and conflict of interest. Public officials have also turned to trumped-up defamation and libel cases to exert financial pressure on independent media.Ahead of parliamentary elections in Albania, scheduled for this summer, media is in a similar situation. The magazine Tema was recently evicted from its premises, rented from the government, and had its printing halted after it published a report on alleged corrupt activities by government officials. And TV News 24, generally critical of the government, was assessed a hefty fine for ridiculing another station’s promotion of the prime minister.I would like to particularly draw your attention to Albania prior to the summer parliamentary elections. The 2005 parliamentary elections saw the first peaceful transfer of power since the fall of communism. In June, Albania will face an important test of its capacity to organize free and fair elections and continue on its path to Euro-Atlantic integrations, particularly since this will be the first parliamentary election under a new electoral system. But in addition to observing instances of media pressure, NED grantees who monitor various election-related activities report serious delays in completing technical requirements, such as issuing ID cards, compiling transparent voter lists and establishing a new Central Electoral Commission, which put at risk the credibility of the electoral process.The recent elections in the neighboring Macedonia, on the other hand, demonstrated the country’s maturity and its commitment to democracy. In stark contrast to the June 2008 parliamentary elections, the March local and presidential elections met most international standards, were well administered, and free of violence. But the issue of Macedonia’s name and an indefinite delay in Euro-Atlantic integrations are undermining the democratic achievements of this Balkan success story and risk destabilizing fragile interethnic peace.And this brings me to Bosnia and Herzegovina, where interethnic harmony seems to be an elusive goal. In fact, ethnic tensions seem to be at their highest since the signing of the Dayton Peace Accords 14 years ago. At the same time, pressure on media and NGOs, particularly in Republika Srpska (RS), remind us of the darkest period in Serbia under Milosevic. Transparency International had to close its office in Banja Luka last summer to ensure the safety of its staff following a barrage of verbal attacks and threats by RS officials. Journalists in both entities frequently find themselves under similar pressure, as evidenced recently when a group of investigative reporters from the Federal Television (FTV) was attacked in Trebinje, while their Monday night program is often censored and blacked out by the RS government.I should, nevertheless, point to some reasons for optimism, the most recent being the adoption of the constitutional amendment on the status of Brcko. This historical event not only fulfills one of the five objectives set forth by the Peace Implementation Council, but also opens the door to a much-needed constitutional reform process. I would also qualify as promising the outcome of the October 2008 local elections, in which multiethnic parties either retained or gained power in important cities such as Sarajevo and, in general, increased their share of votes at the expense of nationalist parties.That being said, there are many challenges ahead. Yet, I can sum up the key issue facing Bosnia and Herzegovina today, as well as the top priority for the international community, in two words – constitutional reform.All of us present here are quite aware of why Bosnia and Herzegovina needs a new constitution. The current system is not only highly dysfunctional, inefficient, and unsustainable, but it also impedes long-term stability by entrenching ethnicity into politics. It allows political elites to repeatedly use the fear of “others” as a mobilizing tool, especially ahead of elections, giving them a consistent advantage over non-ethnic parties. Moreover, a number of existing constitutional provisions conflict with the European Charter of Human Rights and are thus inconsistent with the goal of EU membership.This fear factor must be removed if Bosnia and Herzegovina is to have a chance at becoming a fully functional, democratic state, integrated into Euro-Atlantic structures. An important contribution towards rebuilding a sense of security, the importance of which may be underestimated at times by the international community, was made with the recent appointment of the new High Representative. Now the major task and the center point of the international community’s efforts should be constitutional reform.I realize that the failure of the “April package” left a bitter taste in everyone’s mouth and that many countries, the U.S. in particular, may have little desire to tackle this issue again. But the international community has invested considerable time and resources into Bosnia and Herzegovina. As you, Mr. Co-Chairman, mentioned in your opening remarks of a November 2007 hearing on Bosnia and Herzegovina, “it would be a serious error if this international effort were allowed to fail…we owe it to the people of Bosnia to encourage them to move forward.”Therefore, I would like to offer the following recommendations for future U.S. and European engagement in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the region:Mr. Chairman, Distinguished Members of the Commission,In November 2005, the Secretary of State invited three Bosnian leaders to Washington to commemorate the 10-year anniversary of the Dayton Peace Accords and pledge support to the constitutional reform process. Almost four years later, we remain concerned about the country’s territorial integrity, democratic future, and fragile interethnic peace. The kinds of programs that NED and its grantees are doing in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Balkans to strengthen democracy remain important for the long-term stability and prosperity of the region. But, only a strong commitment by the United States and its European partners to help to create a new constitution can make Bosnia and Herzegovina a fully democratic state. If we succeed, we will have more reason to celebrate the 15-year anniversary of the Dayton Peace Accords.Thank you very much. I look forward to taking your questions.The International Forum is pleased to welcome nine new members to the Network...2000 NED Democracy Award honors Heroes of Human Rights...NED is proud to share the story of Štefica Galić,...More than 20 years after the peace deal, Bosnia and...Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellow Agon Maliqi discussed...Read Carl Gershman's opening remarks at IRI's Democracy Backlash Seminar.
#Belarus on the Eve of Elections, Testimony of Rodger Potocki, Director, Central Europe and Eurasia, National Endowment for Democracy#January 19, 2010#Testimony of Rodger Potocki, Director, Central Europe and Eurasia, National Endowment for DemocracyBefore the Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE), U.S. House of RepresentativesMr. Chairman and Distinguished Members of the Commission:Thank you for the opportunity to comment on the political situation in Belarus prior to the September 28 parliamentary elections. The regime in Minsk has adopted a different approach to this election, in comparison to the 2004 contest, but the changes are of style, not substance. Belarus has not held a free or fair election since Alexander Lukashenka was elected in 1994, and the end result of this one will almost certainly be the same.To win Transatlantic political and economic concessions, the regime is altering the way it conducts elections in three ways: by allowing international scrutiny, asserting technical improvements, and moderating the campaign climate. In the past, Lukashenka cared little about Western outcry over his persecution of the opposition and falsification of elections. The regime’s new business plan is to try to minimize international condemnation of and encourage domestic apathy about what is already a flawed process. Lukashenka wants a “quiet election” that will advertise “progress” on several fronts and can be sold to the West.Selling AbroadThe regime’s first adjustment towards muting international criticism has been to open up the elections to the outside world. Unlike Russia, Belarus has welcomed international monitors. As compared to previous contests, Minsk has issued invitations in a timely manner and not refused visas to observers. In contrast to 2004, the regime has been less obstructionist, granting the OSCE mission access to the highest levels of government. Lukashenka has declared: “We want to show western countries and Russia how elections should be organized.”This election is being orchestrated primarily for US and European consumption, mainly to improve Belarus’ image abroad. The country’s top election official has made it clear that the Central Election Commission’s primary goal is to “have the results be recognized by the international community.” The acceptance of, and focus on, international observers also helps gain legitimacy amongst the 71 percent of the population that thinks the election should be monitored. But just as importantly, the regime’s détente with the West seeks to divert citizens’ attention away from the election’s domestic aspects. Close to a third of the state media’s election coverage has centered on the international monitors, not candidates or races.The regime’s spotlight on the international has been carefully focused. In terms of monitoring, it has concentrated on the more friendly CIS observers. In mid-August, the state news agency Belta devoted four times as much coverage to the CIS monitors than to their western counterparts. But there has been almost no official coverage of domestic observation efforts. The CIS mission has been careful to reinforce the regime’s “quiet election” scenario. Its Russian head declared: “The preparations for the parliamentary election are going on in a calm manner, just as planned.”Like the government, the leadership of the democratic opposition has also recognized the paramount role of the international community. By focusing most of its efforts on competing with the regime for Western attention — instead of campaigning at home — the opposition is also deflecting the electorate’s attention away from domestic issues. Calls for a boycott by some in the opposition also threaten to turn the election into exclusively an international show. The first interim report of the OSCE mission stated that there is “very little evidence” an election is actually underway in Belarus.Better Business Practices?The second tack to temper international dissatisfaction with the election process is the regime’s focus on organizational and technical matters. Lukashenka has declared that “we want the elections to be held in a way so that nobody will be able to criticize us.” The Central Election Commission is pointing to procedural improvements as evidence of Belarus coming “closer to international standards.” Chairperson Lidia Yarmoshyna pointed out, for example, that the CEC has received a total of 275 complaints since the parliamentary campaign began, as compared with 888 complaints during the last campaign. The CIS mission praised the Belarusian authorities for successfully “securing the proper organization of the election process.”Cosmetic changes in routine do produce good publicity, especially if the state controls the media. If this election is perceived as more efficiently run, it gives the appearance of being more democratic. A focus on procedures helps to influence the one-third of voters who consider the country’s election code as flawed and do not believe this contest will be free or fair.Similarly, the state-run media’s election coverage is reporting on those who are running the election, not those running in it. During the second half of July, it devoted more than 70 percent of its coverage on the parliamentary elections to President Lukashenka. During the first half of August, Gomel Pravda, a state regional newspaper covering 17 election districts, allotted 99.82 percent of its space to the president and CEC. The regime’s depiction of the election as a series of well-organized procedures helps to promote apathy by diverting attention from competing candidates, parties, platforms or issues.An orderly election also contrasts nicely with a democratic opposition that is painted by the regime as illegitimate, disorganized and riven by conflict. The regime, which bases its legitimacy on stability, is using opposition protests against procedural irregularities to accuse the democrats of disturbing the peace. By tussling with the regime over procedures rather than campaigning, the opposition is bolstering the regime’s “well-ordered” election plan. The state’s actions and its media coverage are not designed to inform voters but to influence foreign observers, foster mass indifference, and preserve the political status quo. According to one OSCE employee, the most important thing for the regime is how this election looks to the West, not how it affects Belarusians.Targeted AdvertisingThe third means to insure a “quiet election” is to temper political noise at home. The regime has moderated its repression against the opposition. Candidates report that the current environment is appreciably better than it was in 2004, when the regime disregarded international opinion and made little pretense in allowing any semblance of competition. The state media’s coverage is better in the sense that there has been less vitriol flung at the opposition. This time around, there is less of a climate of fear. There is some truth in the Central Election Commission’s claim that “the campaign is being carried out peacefully, in a quiet manner.”But again, this is a change in approach, not direction. Heavy-handedness has been shelved for subtlety, brute force has been set aside in favor of low-level harassment, and intimidation has been replaced by fostering indifference. While purposely raising the international profile of the elections for its own purposes, the regime’s game plan has been to play down the elections at home.Before the campaign began, the regime made sure to eliminate many of the opposition’s troublemakers. Leading representatives, including former statesmen, government leaders and VIPs, were left off of election commissions. A dozen of the opposition’s “rising stars,” who had previously run strong campaigns and developed popular support, were not registered.Those who made it past the procedural hurdles of registration have not been subjected to the full force of state repression. Rather than being beaten or arrested, as in 2004, they or members of their campaign teams have been forced to undergo tax inspections, expelled from university, fired from their jobs, and drafted into the army. The regime hasn’t abandoned the use of force, just ratcheted down its intensity. In fact, because the regime wants this election to come off well, most of the election-related arrests have been of those advocating a boycott.To foster indifference among the populace, the state media has minimized the elections. From July to August, election-related coverage actually decreased. The state broadcast media has devoted more time to reporting on the weather than the elections; it has offered almost zero coverage to opposition campaigns. State radio rejected the opposition’s request to hold candidate debates. As late as the first week of September, Soviet Belarus and The Republic, two leading state dailies, provided no positive or no negative reporting on political parties – they simply ignored them. During the same period, the main news program on state TV devoted less than three percent of its election reporting to an anonymous opposition and anonymous political parties. A independent monitor was discouraged to see that “there is literally no election campaign going on in the media.”Finally, the regime has used its administrative resources to limit the public outreach of opposition campaigns. Candidates’ television addresses were broadcast during rush hour, from 5:30 to 6:30pm, when working people were still commuting home. They appeared not on national TV, but on regional channels, which less people watch. T he state provided the equivalent of $800 to each candidate for campaigning, the only funding that can legally be used to get out his or her message. Meetings with voters have been restricted to only a few, out-of-the-way places, such as parks where dogs are allowed. Candidate materials are limited to isolated billboards. The regime’s goal is to make the elections unnoticeable for the general public, and to prevent any political excitement among common people. Citizens are being encouraged to go to the polls without knowing their choices, and the regime is doing all it can to keep a tight rein on those who might disturb the ritual of voting that still dominates in this post-Soviet state.Mr. Chairman, during Soviet times, Belarus was known as “The Quiet Republic.” The regime is doing all that it can to make this a “quiet election,” palatable to the West. But “the sounds of silence” emanating from Minsk insure that this will not be a free and fair election. To answer the question in the title of this hearing, it’s not business as usual in Belarus this fall, but the same old scam is still in the works. Thank you.The September 2018 edition of the Forum newsletter features new content, event...Dr. Lilia Shevtsova delivered the 11th Annual Seymour...The panel will discuss how such research and analysis...Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellow Elsa Marie D’Silva...Belarus’ Political Prospects: A Panel Discussion with Tribute to Vitali...
#International Media Assistance is an Underappreciated Key to Democratic Development#December 4, 2009#Sustained and committed support of independent news media can make a dramatic difference in creating sustainable development and democracy in the world, according to a newly-released report from the Center for International Media Assistance (CIMA) at the National Endowment for Democracy (NED).The report, entitled Empowering Independent Media: U.S. Efforts to Foster Free and Independent News Around the World, provides an in-depth assessment of U.S. international media development efforts, both public and private, and calls on future efforts to be more long-term, comprehensive, and need-driven.The U.S., through government and private sector initiatives, spends at least $142 million annually on media development efforts in countries around the world. These activities include training journalists, granting seed money for news media outlets, supporting professional associations, and providing legal expertise on media laws.Media assistance, the report says, is increasingly being regarded as a fundamental building block in developing democratic states. These efforts can help countries make democratic transitions, spur economic growth, improve government accountability, conduct public health campaigns, increase education and literacy levels, and empower women and minorities.CIMA’s report calls for increased funding, personnel, and recognition of this important and relatively new development field. Although funding for media assistance increased after the fall of communism, support too often has been fragmented, it says.Recommending a more holistic assistance approach, the report looks at the international media development field from a number of perspectives: funding, professional development, education, the legal-enabling environment, economic sustainability, media literacy, new media, and monitoring and evaluation.“We hope that this report will be an important tool for policymakers and donors as they look at support of international media development as well as for those who carry out this important work internationally,” CIMA Senior Director Marguerite H. Sullivan said.The report’s recommendations include:Empowering Independent Media is the culmination of CIMA’s work since its inception in late 2006, and draws upon its reports, working group discussions, meetings, and additional research on topics ranging from public and private funding of projects and the financial sustainability of independent media outlets to global investigative journalism and community radio development.To download a copy of the report, please visit CIMA’s Web site at http://cima.ned.org.To request a hard copy, please email CIMA@ned.org.###CIMA works to strengthen the support, raise the visibility, and improve the effectiveness of media assistance programs worldwide by providing information, building networks, conducting research, and highlighting the indispensable role independent media play in developing sustainable democracies around the world. For more information on CIMA, please visit: http://www.ned.org/cima/cima.html.To subscribe to CIMA’s mailing list for reports and events, please send an e-mail to CIMA@ned.org.Governments, Gatekeepers and Journalists:What's Next in the Struggle...On Tuesday, May 23, an expert panel will explore how...The panel will discuss how such research and analysis...The National Endowment for Democracy (NED) was shocked...
#Frost, Lyman, Marshall, Sestanovich Join NED Board Of Directors#December 2, 2009#Contact: Jane Riley Jacobsen (202) 378-9700 or jane@ned.orgWASHINGTON, D.C. – Former U.S. Representative Martin Frost (D-TX),  Ambassador Princeton Lyman, Progressive Policy Institute President Will Marshall, and Ambassador Stephen Sestanovich have joined the Board of Directors of the National Endowment for Democracy (NED).  Frost and Sestanovich were elected for a three-year term on June 19, 2009; Lyman and Marshall were elected to a similar term today. “The Endowment is privileged to welcome these four exceptional members to its Board,” said NED Chairman Richard Gephardt.  “Their regional expertise and extensive knowledge of democratic practices will greatly benefit the work of NED and its hundreds of grantees around the world.”Congressman Martin Frost is a keen observer of national politics who has held a number of leadership positions for the Democratic Party including Caucus Chair, Ranking Democrat for the Rules Committee, and Chairman of the DCCC — he is considered one of the party’s top strategists. From 1979-2005, Mr. Frost served as a member of Congress representing the Dallas-Fort Worth area in north Texas. From 1990-95, he also chaired a special House Task Force established to help eastern and central European nations transition to democracy after the fall of the Berlin Wall. He has continued democracy building efforts through work with the National Democratic Institute.Ambassador Princeton N. Lyman is an adjunct senior fellow for Africa policy studies at the Council on Foreign Relations (CFR). He is also an adjunct professor at Georgetown University. Ambassador Lyman’s career in government included assignments as deputy assistant secretary of state for Africa, U.S. ambassador to Nigeria, director of refugee programs, ambassador to South Africa, and assistant secretary of state for international organization affairs. He has published books and articles on foreign policy, African affairs, economic development, HIV/AIDS, UN reform, and peacekeeping.Will Marshall is president and founder of the Progressive Policy Institute (PPI), established in 1989 as a center for political innovation in Washington, D.C. In this capacity, he has been one of the chief intellectual architects of the movement to modernize progressive politics for the global age. PPI’s policy analysis and proposals were the source for many of the “New Democrat” innovations that figured prominently in national politics over the past two decades. The Institute also has been integral to the spread of “Third Way” thinking to center-left parties in Europe and elsewhere.Stephen Sestanovich is the George F. Kennan senior fellow for Russian and Eurasian studies at the Council on Foreign Relations (CFR) and the Kathryn and Shelby Cullom Davis professor of international diplomacy at Columbia University. His particular areas of expertise are Russia and the former Soviet Union, Caucasus and Central Asia, and U.S. foreign policy. From 1997 to 2001, he served as ambassador-at-large and special adviser to the secretary of state for the new independent states. In this capacity, he was the State Department’s principal officer responsible for policy toward the states of the former Soviet Union.NED was created in 1983 as a private, nonprofit, grant-making foundation with a mission to strengthen democratic institutions around the world through nongovernmental efforts. With an annual appropriation from the U.S. Congress, the NED Board, which is independent and bipartisan, makes more than a thousand grants each year to support prodemocracy groups in nearly 90 countries. The Endowment supports projects that promote political and economic freedom and participation, human rights, a strong civil society, independent media and the rule of law.We are thankful for Judy Shelton's leadership during her time as Chairman of...Andrew H. Card Jr., former White House chief of staff...Thank you for supporting the National Endowment for...We asked parting NED Board Members, Will Marshall,...In his presentation, Leonid Gozman demonstrated how...During this event, panelists will discuss ongoing dialogue efforts and explore...
#Vin Weber’s Presentation of NED’s Democracy Service Medal to Václav Havel#November 25, 2009#Mr. Havel, will you please come forward? I’d also like to ask our dissident friends to join me here on the podium.The Board of Directors of the National Endowment for Democracy created its Democracy Service Medal to recognize individuals who have made significant contributions to the progress of democracy around the world.The medallion we are about to present you was first awarded eight years ago to the former Polish President and founder of the Solidarity trade union movement Lech Walesa and former AFL-CIO President Lane Kirkland on the occasion of the 10th anniversary of the roundtable agreement that led to the peaceful transition to democracy in Poland.It has since been presented to a select group of individuals who have demonstrated, through personal commitment, their dedication to the advancement of freedom, human rights, and democracy.As many in this room are well aware, this year marks the 30th anniversary of Charter 77, the dissident movement you helped bring into being that was instrumental in setting the stage for democracy in your native Czechoslovakia.But Charter 77 was far more than a movement of a single country, indeed, it has served as an inspiration to dissidents throughout the world, such as those we have heard from so eloquently tonight and who are joining me here at this time.In your writings you have emphasized the fragility of democracy, noting that it is a never ending challenge, and you have cautioned us that effective democracy requires critical examination. At the same time, you have taught us that the ideas of human rights, civil society, and the free market carry with them the potential seeds of our salvation.And while you have warned us against regarding democracy as something given, finished, and complete that, in your words, “can be exported like cars or television sets,” you have also pointed out that [and I quote] ” it is both a moral responsibility, and in the vital interests of everyone who lives in democratic or free conditions not to be indifferent to the fate of people who do not enjoy the same good fortune, and to offer a wide spectrum of help to those who have the courage, even in un-free conditions, to behave freely and, under the rule of lies, to serve truth.”In this single phrase, sir, you have captured the philosophy that guides our work at NED.– For your courage in facing down totalitarian oppression and speaking out against it on behalf of others;  – For your wisdom in creating an enduring body of literature ranging from the imaginative realm of drama to the organizational and political work of promoting democracy and human rights;  – And for your unique sense of solidarity that has bound you to dissident movements the world over;The National Endowment for Democracy is proud and honored to present you with its Democracy Service Medal.For his life-long service to America and to the cause...On May 25, Nigeria's Transition Monitoring Group (TMG),...Read the remarks made by Carl Gershman on the occasion...NED President Carl Gershman presents Mustafa Dzhemilev...
#Taiwan’s Maturing Democracy: The Challenge of Leadership and Responsibility#November 24, 2009#Keynote Address by Carl Gershman, President The National Endowment for DemocracyKeynote delivered for Brookings/CSIS Joint Symposium on “Consolidating Taiwans Democracy: Challenges, Opportunities, and Prospects” Washington D.C.Let me begin my remarks this morning with a few words of background. The NED has had a close relationship with Taiwan for more than a decade, though the initial contacts were marked by an unexpected but illuminating misunderstanding. I was planning a trip to the region in the fall of 1994 and thought I might stop in Taiwan, which I had never visited before, to explore the possibility of Taiwan’s establishing a democracy foundation like the NED. In the post-Cold War environment of the early 90s, democracy promotion was beginning to expand as a field of international activity, and other democracies like Britain and Canada had just launched their own foundations. For a number of reasons, I thought Taiwan might find the idea attractive and therefore wanted to start a discussion with the appropriate people, if I could find them. I asked a friend who dealt with Taiwan to make some inquiries, and he came back with the response that a visit by NED was not needed since Taiwan was already a democracy and didn’t need the kind of assistance we were known to provide.I thought I might skip the visit, but then, almost simultaneously and certainly by coincidence, I got a long email from Larry Diamond those who know Larry are aware that he rarely writes short emails telling me that Sam Huntington had just been approached by the Director General of Taiwan’s Information Office, Jason Hu, with the idea that Taiwan would host a major international conference on the third wave of democratization. Jason was obviously looking to call attention to Taiwan’s democratic transition, and he wanted a partner who knew the field of democracy studies. Sam proposed the NED’s newly established research center, the International Forum for Democratic Studies, and contacted Larry who was the Forum’s co-director. All of a sudden, I not only had someone to talk to but an ambitious project, and the rest is history. The conference, held the following summer on the theme of “Consolidating the Third Wave Democracies,” was a major event, bringing together many of the world’s leading democracy scholars and practitioners, among them Robert Dahl, Juan Linz, Alfred Stepan, Guillermo O’Donnell, Philippe Schmitter, Adam Przeworski, Robert Scalapino, Francis Fukuyama, former prime ministers Yegor Gaidar of Russia and Mart Laar of Estonia, and many others. It was also addressed by four of Taiwan’s leading officials: President Lee Teng-hui, Premier Lien Chan, James Soong, the governor of Taiwan province, and Chen Shui-bien, the major of Taipei. It led to the publication of two volumes of essays edited by Larry and Marc Plattner on our side, and Hung-mao Tien and Yun-han Chu of Taiwan’s Institute for National Policy Research. Many joint initiatives were to follow, and in 2003 Taiwan even established the democracy foundation that was but a far-fetched idea when it was first suggested almost a decade earlier.The Taiwan Foundation for Democracy has given Taiwan the ability to play a role in an important new aspect of what the political scientists call “non-territorial global functional space,” which includes, among other areas of international activity, commerce, science, the arts, and increasingly civil society and democracy promotion. Through the Foundation Taiwan has been able to participate in the worldwide association of democratic countries called the Community of Democracies, having hosted the Asia non-governmental preparatory conference that preceded the Community’s ministerial meeting held last April in Santiago, Chile. It participated in the Seventh World Meeting of Democracy Promoting Foundations held in Stockholm last August and is the likely host of the Eighth Meeting that will be held next year. It’s also the main sponsor of the World Movement for Democracy’s newly launched Global Network on Local Governance, which is based in India, and has created the World Forum for Democratization in Asia that serves as a principal hub for the World Movement’s Asia regional network.All of this is encouraging and positive, but it’s not the subject of our meeting this morning, nor should it deflect our attention from the fact that Taiwan’s own democratic consolidation has not progressed as smoothly or as rapidly as many of us had hoped and expected. Yun-han Chu’s account in the Journal of Democracy of what he calls the “traumatic” presidential election of March 2004, and his analysis of how dysfunctional many aspects of Taiwan’s political process have become, makes for very sober reading. It is a story of deep political divisions; of legislative gridlock and political immobilization; of neglect of urgent economic, social, and security issues; of a loss of civility in public life; and of declining public confidence in the democratic process as the two camps of the divided political class seem more intent on doing battle with each other than with addressing critical national problems. I’m tempted to say that the polarization and disillusionment that have gripped Taiwan — which few could have anticipated at the time of our conference in 1995, when the four men who would subsequently lead the rival Pan-Blue and Pan-Green coalitions came together to talk about democracy — have troubling similarities to what has happened in this country since our own presidential election in 2000. But Taiwan is still a new democracy. It has a weaker tradition of constitutionalism than the United States, a less tested and accepted electoral system, and far deeper divisions deriving from the legacy of authoritarianism, the conflict over national identity, and fundamental differences over how to manage the menacing pressures from the mainland. In a word, Taiwan has a much smaller margin for error and runs a grave security risk if it indulges partisan passions for too long.Like Yun-han Chu, I am cautiously hopeful that public disaffection with the political class might chasten the politicians and trigger a process of self-correction and political learning, the capacity for which is one of democracy’s chief advantages. We should never forget Amartya Sen’s insight that democracy has a constructive function in that it allows public discussion that can generate informed choices and encourage the growth of mature citizens. This is certainly consistent with Larry Diamond’s thesis that democracy is a developmental process that progresses according to no fixed sequence or timetable and that it is possible to learn from experience and to build upon it. It is also important to keep in perspective the difficulties in democratic consolidation that Taiwan has encountered of late. Taiwan’s problems pale in comparison, for example, to the actual assault on democracy that is taking place in Russia and some other post-communist countries, or to the backsliding that has occurred in Venezuela, where democratic forms are being used to legitimize autocracy. I’m much more worried about the future of democracy in Nigeria or even Thailand than I am about Taiwan’s ability to make adjustments and move forward.That having been said, though, I want to come back to the issue of relations with the mainland, which represent the most palpable threat to Taiwan’s democracy and security. The deep cleavages that divide Taiwan not only block progress on democratic consolidation but also allow China to intervene in Taiwan’s politics and to play the different political camps off against each other. China has also been successful in making Taiwan’s status, and its refusal to succumb to Chinese pressures, the principal issue in the contentious cross-Strait relations. This has the unfortunate effect of obfuscating what is, in fact, the fundamental problem, which is the mainland’s outmoded, unitary, and oppressively centralized and inflexible concept of sovereignty.No large and complex state in the twenty-first century can hope to be successful and to be integrated into the dynamic global economy if it tries to exercise authoritarian control from the center and resists the adoption of a federal legal and political structure. China’s economic liberalization is already causing a growing strain between the center and the increasingly assertive regions where party cadres operate outside the framework of law and beyond the reach of the bureaucrats in Beijing. The result is rampant corruption presided over by what Michael Davis has called a new “class of local cadre-entrepreneurs,” regional protectionism, environmental degradation such as the calamitous chemical spills into China’s major rivers, distorted markets, arbitrary justice, industrial disasters (particularly in the mining sector, where more people have died on average every day over the last six years than perished in last January’s two mining tragedies in West Virginia), and growing popular unrest.The sharpening contradiction between China’s developing economy and its anachronistic political structure has the effect of feeding the insecurity of the bureaucrats at the center which, in turn, reinforces their refusal to accommodate the needs and desires of the peripheral communities in Hong Kong, Tibet, and Xinjiang. The bureaucrats act like they think they’re on a slippery slope, fearful that any concessions in the direction of greater pluralism and tolerance would cause the entire system to unravel. Thus, they’re pressing not just to contain but to roll back democracy in Hong Kong, and they systematically repress the Tibetan and Uyghur minorities, treating the distinct religious and cultural identity of each as a threat to the unity of the Chinese state. Obviously Taiwan represents the greatest threat of all since it is least under their control and, as a functioning democracy, constitutes a standing rebuke to the autocratic system on the mainland.All of these peripheral communities, Taiwan included, share a common interest in the development of greater democracy in China, a precondition for which is a more rational territorial political structure, combining elements of federalism and confederalism, which would accommodate China’s regional and communal diversity. Despite this common interest, these communities rarely speak with each other, nor are they engaged in any sustained discussion with people in China who share their interest in a more open, modern, and democratic political system and territorial structure.With this problem in mind, the NED recently convened a small meeting of specialists and activists from or connected to each other these communities, including exiled Chinese, to consider how efforts to settle the status issues might encourage democracy in China, and to explore possibilities for cooperation. There was agreement on three points: First, that it is desirable to break down the isolation of each of these communities and to organize more common discussions across communal lines; second, that it is necessary to challenge and ultimately to change the monolithic discourse and closed mindset that deny any legitimacy to minority political and cultural communities; and toward that end, to complexify the discussion of status issues, focusing on concrete problems that cannot be solved in the context of a unitary and absolutist state structure.In preparing for this meeting, I asked a friend on the mainland if he thought some use might served by organizing a discussion of the relationship between democratization on the mainland and a settlement of the different status issues. To my surprise, he wrote back that cooperation among the peripheral communities in pressing Beijing for democracy had “vital importance.” It would “send a clear message to Beijing and the Chinese people: No democracy, no unification!” He noted in conclusion that “No encouragement and inspiration would be greater than this to those pro-democrats inside China.”If greater discussion and common effort among what we called the “quartet” of peripheral communities could provide real encouragement to democrats inside China, it already has enormous value. It could also challenge Beijing to offer a definition of “one China” that is consistent with modern concepts of sovereignty, decentralization, and democracy, and not try to change the issue by insisting that the aspiration of Taiwan’s people for freedom is a threat to Chinese sovereignty and peace. As Taiwan continues to consolidate its own democracy, it will be in an ever stronger position to influence the process of democratization in China itself. It is a process in which Taiwan has a profound self-interest, since it will advance its own security and the cause of peace in Asia and beyond. Not least, the goal of encouraging democracy in China might serve as a common rallying point for Taiwan’s rival political camps, reminding them of something that parties in a democracy sometimes forget, which is that the issues that divide them are not nearly as important as the values that should hold them together. That’s a truth that no democracy can afford to overlook.
#Today’s Threats to Democracy Assistance#November 24, 2009#Carl Gershman, President of the NEDTranscript of Opening Remarks IRI Democracy Backlash SeminarBelgrade, SerbiaThank you, Liz and thank you to IRI for putting this meeting together. It’s an important discussion. I am also very pleased to be here this morning with my good friend, Edward McMillan-Scott, who is such a staunch supporter of all of this work and one of the key people that we are able to work with in Europe.Last night, and already this morning, a great deal has been said about the causes of this so called “backlash” and the impediments that a number of governments have put in place to block the work of promoting democracy. Many of these governments are what we call “semi-authoritarian” regimes where activists can use some small openings in the political process to try to push for more change. This is what happened in the so-called “colored revolutions” in Georgia and Ukraine which have alarmed many of the remaining “semi-authoritarian” leaders who are determined to on to power at any cost. Their goal is to pre-empt any colored new revolution before it can get started, an effort that involves bringing NGOs under government control, preventing them from receiving international funding, making it impossible for international democracy institutes to do their work, and so forth. All this is very self-evident and actually not very surprising. We also know a lot about the various impediments that have been created, which I might note affect some of us at the table differently from others. Groups like IRI, which establish offices in some of these countries, are obviously going to be affected differently than the NED, which does not have a local presence but makes grants to groups that are inside. I’ll speak shortly about our response to these impediments, but for now I just want to note that they are a defensive reaction by a number of regimes to the success of democracy in the last period.What I want to do this morning is to say a few words about the larger context in which this backlash is taking place and how we need to respond. I think what is important to understand is that the pushback against democracy is happening at a time when the third wave of democratization has come to an end and we have entered what Professor Samuel Huntington has called the “reverse-wave period.” The third wave crested in the late 1980s and early 90s, and it is actually surprising that the reverse wave did not come earlier. Following the two previous waves of democratization – before World War I and after World War II — there were very powerful pushbacks. They occurred in the 1920s and 30s with the rise of communism and fascism, and then in the 1960s and 70s with the collapse of many of the new democracies in Africa and other regions, the rise of the authoritarianism in Asia, the takeover by military dictatorships in Latin America, and so forth. After the third wave peaked in the and early 1990s, there were a few isolated cases of democratic breakdown, such as the coup in Pakistan. But for the most part there was no significant pushback until now.Actually, it’s a much larger phenomenon than just a backlash against democracy promotion. What gives this backlash a special kind of force is that it’s not taking place in isolation but is being reinforced by many other phenomena. For one thing, there is not today the same kind of confidence about democracy and its prospects that there was in the early 1990s in the wake of the great revolutions of the third wave. Part of that has to do with the fact that many of the new democracies are not doing very well. The transitions have not been consolidated and many of the new democracies are in trouble. Serbia itself is a good example. As we heard from Ambassador Polt last night, there was a breakthrough in October 2000, but the transition has stalled here, nationalism is still strong, and democracy seems to be backsliding. And it’s not just here in Serbia where there’s a troubled transition. In many other countries new democracies have not been able to perform up to the expectations that people had in terms of fighting poverty, eliminating corruption, delivering the kind of government services that people want. It’s in that sense that many people are losing confidence in democracy.Beyond that, the major democracies themselves are more pre-occupied with other priorities right now than aiding democracy, and they are not showing the same kind of force in driving this issue that they demonstrated at an earlier time. The US is obviously pre-occupied with the war in Iraq. The fact that Islamists in certain countries were able to take advantage of elections to strengthen their own position has certainly complicated the work of aiding democracy, and it has contributed to the growing strength in our own country of the so-called realist school of thought which says that we have pressing security concerns to attend to and should put promoting democracy promotion on the back burner. I’m sure we will hear from Edward about a similar trend in Europe.On top of all this, there are also a number of international factors that are contributing to the reverse wave. The drastic increase in the price of oil in the last few years has obviously strengthened a number of belligerent opponents of democracy – in Russia, in Iran, in Venezuela — and has also made the western democracies more dependent on these countries and therefore less willing to push very hard against them.In addition, China is a much more influential country economically and politically than ever before. In its quest for natural resources to fuel its economic growth, it’s perfectly happy to establish close and collaborative relations with governments in Burma, Zimbabwe, Belarus, Uzbekistan, Sudan and other authoritarian countries. It also purports to offer an alternative, autocratic model of economic development. And so that, too, is a problem. Moreover, the whole context of the war on terrorism creates new difficulties for democracy promotion since there are many authoritarian regimes, Russia and China in particular, that justify their crackdown on democracy activists by saying that they’re fighting terrorism. The Russian law on extremism is a case in point. There is also, as we know, a rise of anti-Americanism in the world, and that, too, is a factor that can be used by autocrats to resist those seeking the advance of democracy, given the leading role the United States has played in this effort.I mentioned before the crisis of governance in many of the new democracies — the cancer of corruption that has contributed to the rise of populist leaders who campaign demagogically against a political class that has not delivered services to the most impoverished people or even to shown any concern for their suffering. Even though these populists don’t themselves have any constructive answers to social and economic problems, they make great promises and appeal to people’s grievances and inveigh against formal democracy as being inherently unresponsive to people’s needs.Finally there is the phenomenon highlighted by the memo that Liz referred to earlier – the increased cooperation among the autocratic governments, as in the case specifically of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization, which brings together Russia, China and the Central Asian countries to promote regional economic cooperation but also to resist democracy promotion efforts and to defend their kind of regimes against the influence of the West This, then is the larger context in which the backlash is occurring and which makes our work today especially difficult.Now what should be our response to this? First of all, I think we need to put this problem in perspective and not get too alarmist about what is happening. Obviously, one of the ways in which we need to respond is by staying engaged in every way possible and by continuing to do our work, despite the obstacles — working with parties, with NGOs, building broad coalitions of groups, supporting independent media, insisting on free and fair elections and challenging the way many of these regimes use elections to legitimize autocratic power. We probably need to do a better job of making the argument that an election that is controlled and manipulated by a government that controls the entire environment in which the election occurs cannot be accepted by the international community. I want to especially emphasize the importance of cross-border assistance, the kind of work that we heard about last night from our friends Otpor friends, since it extremely effective and credible way of aiding beleaguered democrats in backsliding countries.It’s important to note that the Russian NGO law has been on the books now for more than a year, but the jury is still out on its impact. We know that the NGO community is operating under great pressure and is expending enormous effort just responding to onerous reporting requirements and government threats. But the consequences so far have not been crippling. Let me just give a couple of examples.We had a visit last week from Karinna Moskalenko of the International Protection Center in Moscow, which is a NED grantee. Last July the Russian government threatened to impose a crippling tax of $180,000 on this group, which brings human rights cases that have not been satisfactorily resolved in the Russian courts to the European Court in Strasbourg,the juridical body of the Council of Europe, which Russia joined in 1996 The group mobilized support domestically and internationally, and so far that tax has not been imposed. The group is still under threat, and there are indications that the government may move to disbar Karinna, but until now she continues to do her work.A number of you know of the Russian-Chechen Friendship Society, which is also a NED grantee. This is a group that the government has gone after for a long time, long before the NGO law was adopted. Last October the 9th, two days after the murder of Anna Politkovskaya, the prosecutor in Nizhny Novgorod, where the group is based, ordered that it be closed down. Interestingly the order came right after the murder of Anna, which was not a coincidence. Both she and the Society offended the government by reporting on what was happening in Chechnya.The Society immediately challenged the decision of the Nizhny Novgorod Court in the Russian Supreme Court. And they started reaching out, organizing a statement that was signed by over a hundred intellectuals, including, I might note, Francis Fukuyama, Andrej Gluksman, and even Noam Chomsky signed this statement defending the Russian-Chechen Friendship Society. Moreover, they were not only signing a statement, they were agreeing to becoming honorary members of the Society as a statement of solidarity. In other words, the group was using the crisis to strengthen themselves internationally and build a network of support. On January the 23rd, the Russian Supreme Court obviously confirmed the decision of the Nizhny Novgorod Court. That was never really in question. But the Society immediately registered itself in Finland and it is now a Finnish NGO that is able to receive grants, and it continues to function in Nizhny Novgorod as the Nizhny Novgorod Foundation to Support Tolerance. The same people are running the organization. To be sure, the government continues to harrass these people. Just yesterday, they tried to break into the offices of the Foundation and arrest the two key people, Stas Dmitrievski and Oksana Chelysheva. But they immediately were on the phone with all of their international friends and were not arrested, though the police did arrest a young activist.I might note that tomorrow in Nizhny Novgorod, which is the third largest city in Russia, there’s going to be a major demonstration, a March of Dissent. There was a similar march in St. Petersburg on March 3rd that many of you read about it in the papers. Garry Kasparov was there and a lot of groups associated with The Other Russia came together. They got a good deal of international attention and showed that there are people in Russia who are not just lying down helplessly in the face of state repression. Regarding tomorrow’s demonstration in Nizhniy Novgorod, the local authorities have denied the organizers a permit to hold the march, saying they had received a request from the Orthodox Church not to have events in the vicinity of holy sites. Also, art fair has suddenly materialized which is another excuse that is being given not to allow the march. But the demonstration is going to take place anyway, and you’ll read about it. The democrats in this situation are not about to give up. Let me add that on the 14th of April, a similar demonstration will take place in Moscow. The fact that all this is happening and that the opposition groups have not been stopped or closed down is of some interest.Moreover, Russia is not a unique case. Conditions are even harsher in Belarus, yet our grants program there remains quite vigorous. Most of the groups that we are supporting are not licensed organizations, but we’re making grants to these organizations anyway. It is also worth noting that IRI has moved its Belarus office to Vilnius, and the NDI office is now in Kiev, but both continue to support partners in Belarus. I would say that the NED has some 50 or 60 grantees in Belarus — independent media groups, human rights organizations and others. The point is, this work is going forward. You can ask how it’s possible, but it is happening. And it’s happening in many other places as well, in Zimbabwe, for example, and in Venezuela.Interestingly, an NGO law similar to the Russian law was introduced in Venezuela last June, on the very day we testified before Senator Lugar and presented him with a report on the backlash that he had requested. But that law has not been passed yet. The NGOs in Venezuela, many of which work with Chavistas, got together to protest. In addition, Finland, in its capacity as chair of the EU, also protested vigorously to the Venezuelan government. The law may still be passed, but so far the Venezuelan government has held off.My point in saying all this to you is that I sense a certain ambivalence on the part of a lot of these regimes. They are dictatorial in their aspirations. But they are, in fact, semi-authoritarian and make some claim to being democratic, even if it’s a false and ersatz form of democracy. We’re not talking about Cuba here, or Burma. Both are dictatorships that have always repressed any independent political or intellectual activity. There’s nothing new here. What’s new is that the so-called semi-authoritarian or hybrid countries, where some independent activity has been allowed, are now trying to close off that opening. But it’s not a simple thing to do that. Once people have tasted a little bit of freedom, they want more. And they want to use whatever freedom they have to defend their rights and expand the political space that exists.Just yesterday I was just talking yesterday with a group of young people in Novi Sad. They were feeling very discouraged about the situation in this country. And I said to them, “Look, we are meeting today in the Parliament of Vojvodina. You have access to all sorts of media in this country that did not exist during the period of communism and then Milosevic. You can organize. Yes, you don’t really have the same kind of access to the people that you would have in a full democracy, but this is not a dictatorial situation.”And I think it is very, very difficult to impose a dictatorship once you’ve had an initial opening. The regimes are trying, they are definitely trying. But the groups inside are showing a high degree of resilience. It’s significant that the NED continues to receive a growing number of grant requests from Belarus, from Russia, from Venezuela, from Zimbabwe, from all of these “hybrid” countries. In some cases, like Uzbekistan, we don’t make the grants directly to the groups inside the country because the government requires that funds go through their banks, which allows them hold up and even confiscate the funds. Still, there are ways to work, and I think that the NED and other democracy foundations, whether we have programs on the ground or are providing grant support, have to be very flexible in how we work if we are to continue to provide assistance. We have to keep our ears close to the ground and adjust to what the groups inside feel is the best way to stay alive in this kind of a situation.Let us also remember that we can now use one asset that exist in previous periods. I am speaking of the Internet.and the enormous access this gives democratic activists to information and communications. Dictators may close newspapers, but democratic groups still have access to the internet. In Ukraine, the Internet publicationUkrainska Pravda was so effective that its editor, Georgy Gongadze, was murdered for exposing corruption in the government. Still, the publication continued to publish because it was so hard to close down. Governments China and Iran try to close off access to the Internet, but it’s very difficult to do that, even for dictatorships. For a country like Russia, that still wants to participate in the G-8 and be accepted in Europe, it makes it much more difficult for them to cut off Internet access.That leads to my second point, which is the need to build international support for the democratic groups and for democracy. The fact that Russia wants to be a member in good standing of the G-8 gives the democracies leverage over its behavior which can be used to prevent it from imposing a real dictatorship. The Community of Democracies is another international association that should condition participation on observing certain basic standards of democratic behavior. It is now preparing for its Bamako Ministerial, which will take place in November. A process of review is now underway, and if Russia and Venezuela continue to centralize power and eliminate any independent activity, whether it’s by political opposition, civil society, independent media, or other sectors of society, they should lose their status as full participants and not be invited to participate in future meetings of the Community of Democracies.You can certainly ask how important all of this is. I think it’s important that the international community maintain and insist upon the observance of democratic standards and not permit regimes that are engaging in blatantly undemocratic behavior to get away with it, at least in terms of their standing in the international community and their participation in various international fora. We need to bring Americans and Europeans together to address this problem and to build new international coalitions of solidarity with people fighting against backsliding. I might note that I first spoke about the backlash problem at a meeting of democracy foundations in Stockholm in August 2005, when we first saw this problem developing. I described what we saw happening in Belarus, Venezuela, Russia and other backlash countries to a group of thirty or so democracy foundations. A coalition of democracy foundations needs to work together to defend democracy and to enlist the support of the Community of Democracies. I might note that the World Movement for Democracy, which is the global association of non-governmental activists, is preparing a report, in cooperation with the International Center for Not-for-Profit Law (ICNL), which will be called Defending Civil Society. It will try to state in normative terms what the relationship should be between governments and civil society and what is appropriate in terms of international assistance to NGOs. There are a lot of complex questions here. When governments say that international democracy assistance violates their sovereignty, the response has to be based on clearly established norms that are embraced by the international community. These norms were first articulated in the Warsaw Declaration of the Community of Democracies, which was adopted in June 2000; and this report, Defending Civil Society, will carry the discussion a step forward. It will try to build a new international consensus in support of democracy assistance and the pro-democracy work of non-governmental groups. We’re assembling an eminent persons’ group to endorse this report. Already Vclav Havel, Archbishop Desmond Tutu, the Dalai Lama, Anwar Ibrahim and others have signed on to be part of this eminent persons’ group. This is just a one step that is part of the effort we have to undertake to build international support and solidarity with the people who are fighting for democracy in these backlash countries.I think it’s very important not to become defensive in our own approach, but to stay on the offensive. Even though we’re in a reverse wave right now, we should be thinking about how to reverse the negative momentum, where the opportunities are for new democratic gains. In that regard, we should start with the understanding that many of these semi-authoritarian governments are inherently unstable. These governments have a great deal of power. They can try to control elections. They can try to close off independent media. They can try to control NGOs and eliminate independent centers of power and activity. But it’s very, very difficult to close down society, especially in a period of expanding communications and after people have tasted a little freedom. The Russians call what they now have “managed democracy,” but it is inherently unstable. If they close off access to information, even the government won’t know what’s going on. It will become paranoid and think that everyone is against them. That makes it much more difficult for them to govern effectively. It’s an unstable situation and opportunities will present themselves in all of these countries for democratic advances. We will have to be alert to where those opportunities will be. For example, regarding the crisis taking place in Zimbabwe right now, a lot of people think that that government is going to have trouble surviving. Brutal as it is, it’s a government which is increasingly isolated both at home and abroad. Sooner or later that government is going to fall. You will never know precisely when these opportunities are going to present themselves, but you have to be ready. Many of the regimes that we’re having the most trouble with today are living off of high oil prices. These prices will not remain high forever. There’ll be economic crises in these countries. Such a crisis is building in Venezuela where the effort by the regime to centralize power is leading even many Chavistas to say, “We don’t want one party, we had many parties before, why should there be just one party?” There are high crime rates, infrastructure problems, a concern about new restrictions on freedom of expression. In many backlash countries these internal crises will become greater and we have to be ready to take advantage of new opportunities to reverse the negative momentum.I think also we have to keep our eye very close on Iran, which is ruled by people who are terrified of a Velvet Revolution. And with good reason. There is a student movement in Iran. There is a worker’s movement. There were bus strikes last year; they had to arrest the leaders of the striking bus workers. There is a significant movement for women’s rights. There’s a campaign for a million signatures for a petition demanding more rights for women. There are NGOs that that want more freedom and accountability. Obviously there is a great deal of government repression and fear, but there is potential. Again, we have to be looking for opportunities and not let ourselves be put on the defensive.This relates to the country where we are meeting – Serbia. I asked Patrick, “Why was Belgrade chosen as the site of this conference?” Maybe it’s just a great venue, I don’t know. But I’m especially happy to be here at this time because I think this is a historic moment in the history of this country. This is what I spoke about yesterday to a large group of youth activists in Novi Sad. Next week Martti Ahtisaari is going to be presenting his plan on Kosovo to the United Nations Security Council. Russia is making a lot of noises vetoing a resolution based upon this plan, which will set in motion a process for the managed independence of Kosovo and for protecting the Serb minority population there. This could open the door for a process that I hope will take place, whereby the problem of Kosovo can resolved, Serbia will deal with its obligations The Hague tribunal, and the Balkans can ultimately become integrated into the European Community. And if that happens – and I realize we have a long and difficult road ahead — this will be a major factor in shifting the balance that exists in Europe today between the forces pushing toward the West and toward democracy and the efforts by Russia to try to reverse these trends. It will increase the possibility that the border of democracy will move further to the east. It will increase the pressure on Belarus and Russia for democracy. These are very long-term prospects, but the struggle that is taking place in this country now, one which I think can succeed, has the potential for tipping the balance in favor of the democrats here and in the region and more broadly in Europe. Thus, we have a very great stake in the struggle that is unfolding here. As the Ambassador was saying last night, we shouldn’t turn our backs on this struggle. Rather, we need to see the relationship of the events that are taking place in this small country to the broader events that are taking place regionally and then globally. This is a critical moment; it’s an historic opportunity. If this opportunity can be seized to help move Serbia and the neighboring countries closer to and into Europe, this could help turn back the reverse wave and maybe even open up the possibility for a fourth way of democratization.Thank you.Read the welcome and introductions by Carl Gershman.In a new report by the International Forum for Democratic...National Endowment for Democracy President Carl Gershman...The International Forum for Democratic Studies at The...Dr. Lilia Shevtsova to speak at Embassy of CanadaWashington,...Remarks by NED President Carl Gershman at the Conference on “Ideas for Lithuania’s...
#Richard A. Gephardt Elected Chairman of National Endowment for Democracy#September 23, 2009#WASHINGTON, DC – On Friday, January 16th, the board of directors of the National Endowment for Democracy (NED) elected Richard A. Gephardt to serve as the Endowment’s new chairman. Gephardt was first elected to the NED board in 2004 when he assumed the duties of vice chair.“The Endowment could not ask for a better leader or one who cared more deeply about NED’s mission to support those around the world who are working to advance democracy,” said outgoing Chairman Vin Weber, who remains on the NED board.Following his election, Gephardt told his fellow directors, “I am looking forward to working hard together to meet our promise to get more democratic institutions built across the entire world.”Thanking Weber for his 8 years of service, NED President Carl Gershman said, “Vin has been a true pleasure to work with, and has contributed enormously to strengthening the work of the Endowment and its grantees. We are deeply grateful for his dedication and service. I know that Dick Gephardt will benefit from the strong example that preceded him, and will continue to lead the Endowment in the tradition of bipartisanship and commitment to the universal values of freedom and democracy that have marked NED’s 25 year history.”Richard A. Gephardt (D-MO) has been a longtime supporter of the Endowment and its work – meeting many times over the years with NED grantees from all over the world. Gephardt was first elected to Congress in 1976 and served as both the Majority and Minority Leader of the U.S. House of Representatives and as one of the nation’s leading Democrats for much of the last two decades. He is an expert on economic issues and foreign affairs, and is an eloquent voice for fairness, justice, tolerance and human rights. Retiring NED Vice Chairman Thomas R. Donahue was honored by the Endowment with...Andrew H. Card Jr., former White House chief of staff...Richard Gephardt, longtime Democratic Leader of the...We are thankful for Judy Shelton's leadership during...The National Endowment for Democracy (NED) will honor...Former U.S. Representative Martin Frost (D-TX),  Ambassador Princeton Lyman,...
#2009 Democracy Award Will Honor Cuban Dissidents On June 24#September 23, 2009#WASHINGTON, DC – The National Endowment for Democracy (NED) will honor the courage and determination of five Cuban democracy activists with the presentation of its annual Democracy Award at a Capitol Hill ceremony and reception on Wednesday, June 24, 2009. Confirmed speakers include“The five brave Cubans we honor this year represent the future of their country,” said NED Chairman Richard Gephardt. “All of them have endured significant personal hardship for nothing more than standing up for basic rights and freedoms. With this award, we hope to express our solidarity with their struggle, and let them know that we share their dream of a free and democratic Cuba. “The honorees are Jorge Luis Garcia Pérez, (aka “Antúnez”), José Daniel Ferrer García, Librado Linares García, Ivan Hernandez Carrillo, and Iris Tamara Perez Aguilera. All five are relatively young, in their 30s and 40s, three are Afro-Cuban, one is a Christian Democrat and another is a Social Democrat, one is a trade unionist and another is a women’s leader. All of them espouse the philosophy of non-violent resistance and activism and, together, the five represent a broad spectrum of opinion and activism. García, Linares and Carrillo are in prison; Antúnez was released in 2007 after 17 years in Cuban jails. Antúnez and Aguilera are living under virtual house arrest since beginning a hunger strike in March of this year.The award presentation and reception will take place in the Caucus Room of the Cannon House Office Building from 5:30 – 7:00 pm, and will be preceded by a panel discussion examining the prospects for democracy in Cuba, which will begin at 3:30 pm in the same room.Toward a Free Cuba: the prospect for Democracy after 50 Years of Dictatorship is the topic, which will be discussed by panelists who include: José Azel, Senior Research Assoicate, Institute for Cuban and Cuban-American Studies, University of Miami; José Miguel Vivanco, Executive Director, Americas Division, Human Rights Watch; Janisset Rivero Gutierrez, Directorio Democratico Cubano; and Marifeli Pérez-Stable, vice president for democratic governance at the Inter-American Dialogue in Washington, DC and a professor of sociology at Miami’s Florida International University. The panel will be moderated by NED Director for Latin America and the Caribbean Miriam Kornblith.The National Endowment for Democracy is a private, nonprofit, bipartisan foundation created in 1983 to strengthen democratic institutions around the world. It is active in more than 90 countries, supporting grassroots, democratic initiatives. More information about NED and the Democracy Award can be found at www.ned.org.2009 Democracy Award HonoreesJorge Luis Garcia Pérez (“Antúnez”)—A 43-year old leader of Cuba’s civic resistance movement who served more than 17 years in prison, having been released in 2007. During that period, his fellow inmates nicknamed him “the black diamond” because of his courage and unbreakable spirit. In “A Word from the Opposition” in the January, 2009 issue of the Journal of Democracy, Antúnez highlighted the Movement’s adherence to the principles of non-violent resistance as set forth by Gandhi and Dr. Martin Luther King. He is married to Iris Tamara Perez Aguilar, another honoree.José Daniel Ferrer García is a youth activist and member of the Christian Liberation Movement who was instrumental in gathering hundreds of signatures and mobilizing people in poor, marginal neighborhoods in support of the Varela Project. García organized meetings with neighbors throughout the eastern provinces, turning them into informal town hall meetings where grievances were expressed and the desire for change articulated. He received one of the highest prison sentences of the group of dissidents arrested on March 18, 2003. He has been a leader of the resistance of political prisoners against the abuses of the regime from within prison walls.Librado Linares García is a young intellectual and founder of the Cuban Reflection Movement. Linares organized independent libraries, soup kitchens for the poor, workshops among various dissident groups, as well as forums and conferences for citizens living in the central region of Cuba. He developed a comprehensive multi-tiered strategy of resistance against the regime, aimed at organizing and mobilizing Cuban civil society through non violent means. One of the pro-democracy leaders arrested on March 18, 2003, Linares has been suffering a progressive loss of eyesight during his imprisonment.Ivan Hernandez Carrillo is an independent labor activist prior to his imprisonment in March, 2003, in his mid-30s and black, Carillo is widely regarded as one of the key youth leaders of the civic opposition. He is from Matanzas province, which, together with Villa Clara province, forms the geographical core of the Cuban resistance. Carillo has continued the resistance struggle during his incarceration.Iris Tamara Pérez Aguilera is founder and President of the Rosa Parks Women’s Movement, whose objectives are to struggle against human rights violations. Born in 1975 in Sancti Spiritus province in central Cuba, she entered the opposition movement in 1999, when her brother, Mario Pérez Aguilera, was imprisoned at Nieves Morejón prison. Ms. Aguilera is married to Jorge Luis Garcia Perez (“Antunez”).The Legacy of Laura Pollán:the Struggle for Democracy and Human Rights...Accepting the Medal, Rep. Wolf focused on the courage...Read remarks by Carl Gershman from the conference:...On July 13, the National Endowment for Democracy presented...The National Endowment for Democracy (NED) will present...
#MESSAGES OF SOLIDARITY, 2009 Democracy Award#June 24, 2009#President Barack Obama ::VISIT Vaclav Havel Lech Walesa ::PDF Oswaldo PayaI bring greetings to all of you present this evening at an important event paying tribute to five individuals who truly represent the triumph of courage and decency over the forces of darkness.By challenging the lies of your rulers, you are leading the path toward a day when your fellow citizens will no longer be afraid to challenge a corrupt regime and will stand up in self-confidence to demand the rights that you and they have been denied for the past half-century.In just a few months we will observe the twentieth anniversary of the fall of totalitarian regimes that once seemed invincible. But as we learned from that experience, regimes that continually oppress their citizens become unsettled when their repression is challenged and their deceitfulness exposed. Just as the Cuban government has done, the dictators of in Eastern Europe responded to those who questioned their authority with ever more repression, but once they realized that their ability to control their populations was not unlimited, their days were numbered.So tonight, I commend the outstanding contributions of five great fighters for human rights and democracy:Jorge Luis Garcia Perez Antunez Iris Tamara Perez Aguilara Jose Daniel Ferrer Garcia Librado Linares Garcia Ivan Hernandez CarrilloAnd I commend the National Endowment for Democracy for allowing your voices to be heard.I am delighted to join in solidarity with fellow democrats throughout the world who look forward to the day when you and your fellow Cuban citizens will be free to decide your own future.Vaclav HavelEnglish version ::PDFQueridos amigos todos, representantes del pueblo de los estados unidos de america,Mucho se habla de las relaciones entre mi pais y el vuestro, este no es el tema hoy, pero es algo que si está en el fondo de lo aquí se hace hoy. Por eso elijo este tema para comenzar y elijo solo dos palabras para definir la relacion deseada y proclamar la buena voluntad entre nuestros pueblos. Queremos ser: libres y amigos.Ninguna suspicacia ni maniobra podrá contaminar estos términos porque expresan la vocación que dios siembra en todos los seres humanos al crearlos dotados de libertad y todos hermanos entre si. Gracias por este gesto solidario en que se reconocen el valor y la entrega a la causa de la justicia y la libertad de estos cubanos hermanos nuestros: iris y jorge luis y los prisoneros de consciencia ivan , librado y jose daniel. Este ultimo calificativo prisioneros de conciencia es nuestra expresion de admiracion y gratitud para los que no podran participar, ni siquiera escuchar lo que aquí se diga por que han dado su voz, su salud y lo mejor de sus su vidas a su projimo, que son los cubanos que hoy no tieen libertad.Ellos luchan para que todos algun dia tengan su propia voz y puedan vivir sin miedoy sin la opresión del totalitarismo que les devora su tiempo.Puedo habalr de todos ellos, hablar de un hermano, josé daniel ferrer garcia, uno de los líderes del movimiento cristiano liberacion que desde su juventud temprana está dedicado a esta causa justa, pero por esa misma razón puedo, debo y tengo el honor y la satisfacción de hablar detodos los prioneros de conciencia cubanos.Porque estan presos? Por defender y promover pacificamente los derechos de los cubanos, por emitir sin miedo las denuncias a las violaciones de estos derechos, por escribir y hablar la verdad que en cuba está prisionera, los prisioneros de conciencia e cuba fueron condenados sobre bases falsas acusados de trabajar para vuetro gobierno, cuando en realidad solo trabajaban para que los cubanos pudieran escoger libremente su propio gobierno democratico.Fueron condenados sobre la base de la calumnia acusandoles de atentar contra la inependencia nacional cuando ellos y nosotros consagramos la vida a luchar por la soberanía y la inependencia nacional pero desde la conviccion de que la sobreanía y la independencia nacional si son verdaderas, son inseparables de la liebratad y los derechos de los ciudadanos.Hoy se erijen y sostienen muchos regimenes a nombre de la defensa de la soberanía de los pueblos, mientras les quitan la libertad a sus ciudadanos les silencian y les dejan sin voz y sin la posibilidad real de decidir soberanamente su destino. Los cubanos no tenemos confusion en eso. Queresmo ser y siempre seremos un país independiente y no queremos vivir de otra forma pero tampoco sabemos , ni podemos ni queremos vivir sin libertad. Jamas hemos escogido este regimen sin derechos que nos oprime.Aunque el gobierno cubano y otros se empeñen en silenciarlo, todos saben que los encarcelamientos masivos se produjeron en marzo del 2003 para intentar liquidar el proyecto varela, que abrió el camino que puede transitar el pueblo por su propios derechos. No podemos dejar que se olvide y se silencie esa causa por la que muchos de ellos fueron encarcelados, porque sería olvidar la causa de la libertad de los cubanos.No vamos a abandonar el proyecto varela porque aun los cubanos no disfrutan de sus derechos fundamentales y muchos luchadores pacificos dentro y fuera de cuba sostienen esa antorcha de esperanza y determinación.Mientras tanto el gobierno de cuba y otros con poder fuera de cuba quieren silenciar y desclificar esta campaña por los derechos de los cubanos. Pero seguimos y seguiremos adelante porque los cubanos deben y merecen ser libres como también todos los pueblos del mundo.Ni un poder tiránico ni muchos poderes juntos, nos haran abandonar este camino, por que sería olvidar a jose daniel y todos nuestros hermanos prisioneros, porque sería olvidar a nuestro pueblo ahora sin libretad y no los olvidaremos, como el pueblo hebreo en el cautiverio nunca olvidó jerusalen. Si quieren apoyar a nuestro pueblo apoyen con su voz y con sus corazones el camino pacifico y de reconciliación pero inequivocanmmente hacia la libertad y los derechos que queremos hacer los cubanos por nosotros mismos.Gracias queridos amigos Oswaldo José Payá Sardiñas A nombre del Movimiento Cristiano Liberación La habana 23 junio de 2009The National Endowment for Democracy (NED) will present...Leaders of the US Congress from both parties and a...Carl Gershman speaks about four Cuban heroes.
#Biographies, 2009 Democracy Award#June 24, 2009# José Daniel Ferrer García is a youth activist and member of the Christian Liberation Movement who was instrumental in gathering hundreds of signatures and mobilizing people in poor, marginal neighborhoods in support of the Varela Project. Ferrer organized meetings with neighbors throughout the eastern provinces, turning them into informal town hall meetings where grievances were expressed and the desire for change articulated. He received one of the highest prison sentences of the group of dissidents arrested on March 18, 2003. He has been a leader of the resistance of political prisoners against the abuses of the regime from within prison walls. Iris Tamara Pérez Aguilera is founder and President of the Rosa Parks Women’s Movement, whose objectives are to struggle against human rights violations. Born in 1975 in Sancti Spiritus province in central Cuba, she entered the opposition movement in 1999, when her brother, Mario Pérez Aguilera, was imprisoned at Nieves Morejón prison. Ms. Aguilera is married to Jorge Luis García Pérez (“Antúnez”).  Jorge Luis García Pérez (“Antúnez”) is a 43-year old leader of Cuba’s civic resistance movement who served more than 17 years in prison, having been released in 2007. During that period, his fellow inmates nicknamed him “the black diamond” because of his courage and unbreakable spirit. In “A Word from the Opposition” in the January, 2009 issue of the Journal of Democracy, Antúnez highlighted the Movement’s adherence to the principles of non-violent resistance as set forth by Gandhi and Dr. Martin Luther King. He is married to Iris Tamara Pérez Aguilera, another honoree.  Iván Hernández Carrillo is an independent labor activist prior to his imprisonment in March, 2003, in his mid-30s and black, Carrillo is widely regarded as one of the key youth leaders of the civic opposition. He is from Matanzas province, which, together with Villa Clara province, forms the geographical core of the Cuban resistance. Carrillo has continued the resistance struggle during his incarceration.Librado Linares García is a young intellectual and founder of the Cuban Reflection Movement. He organized independent libraries, soup kitchens for the poor, workshops among various dissident groups, as well as forums and conferences for citizens living in the central region of Cuba. He developed a comprehensive multi-tiered strategy of resistance against the regime, aimed at organizing and mobilizing Cuban civil society through non violent means. One of the pro-democracy leaders arrested on March 18, 2003, Linares has been suffering a progressive loss of eyesight during his imprisonment.José Azel is currently a Senior Research Associate at the Institute for Cuban and Cuban-American Studies, University of Miami, a non-profit, non-partisan institution, which sponsors academic research, analysis, and outreach programs on Cuba, U.S-Cuba relations and Cuban-Americans. ICCAS is also home of the Cuba Transition Project – CTP; a project which studies and makes recommendations for the reconstruction of Cuba once the post-Castro transition begins in earnest. Mr. Azel left Cuba in1961 as a 13 year-old political exile in what has been dubbed Operation Pedro Pan – the largest unaccompanied child refugee movement in the history of the Western Hemisphere. He holds undergraduate and master’s degrees in business administration and a Ph.D. in International Affairs from the University of Miami.Marifeli Pérez-Stable is vice president for democratic governance at the Inter-American Dialogue. Her column on Latin American topic appears every other Thursday in the Miami Herald. Her opinion pieces have also appeared in El País, the Financial Times, La Vanguardia, El Clarín, Excelsior, El Nuevo Herald, and The Nation. She is also an editorial contributor to the Real Instituto Elcano and Infolatam. She authored The Cuban Revolution: Origins, Course, and Legacy. She is the editor of Looking Forward: Comparative Perspectives on Cuba’s Transition. Looking Forward was a finalist in the ForeWord Magazine Book of the Year Award (2007). In 2001-2003, she chaired the task force on Memory, Truth, and Justice which issued the report, Cuban National Reconciliation. Marifeli is also a professor at Miami’s Florida International University.Janisset Rivero Gutierrez, a noted human rights activist, was born in Camaguey, Cuba in 1969. Forced to leave her country at age 14, she lived in Venezuela before moving to Miami. She received bachelor degrees in Communications and Public Relations from Instituto Universitario de Nuevas Profesiones in Caracas, and in Spanish from Florida International University (FIU). She also received a Master in Spanish and Hispanic Literature from FIU. She has extensively published poems, essays, and articles in newspapers and magazines in Venezuela, Puerto Rico and the United States. A founding member of the Cuban Democratic Directorate, she has testified before the United Nations’ Commission on Human Rights and the Organization of American States on the human rights situation in Cuba.José Miguel Vivanco is the executive director of the Americas Division of Human Rights Watch. Mr. Vivanco is a Chilean lawyer educated at the University of Chile and Salamanca Law School in Spain, and at Harvard Law School where he earned a Master’s degree in Law (LLM). He worked as an attorney for Human Rights Watch, then known as Americas Watch, and for the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights of the Organization of American States (OAS) before founding the Center for Justice and International Law (CEJIL), an NGO that files complaints of human rights violations before international bodies such as the UN and the OAS, in 1990. In August 1994, Vivanco assumed his current position. His academic and opinion articles have been widely published, and among his many honors, Vivanco received the 2007 human rights award from the American Society of International Law. He has appeared on a variety of television news programs in both English and Spanish, He has also been Adjunct Professor of law at Georgetown University Law Center and the School of Advanced International Studies at Johns Hopkins University.Bertha Antúnez Pernet is a leader of the National Movement of Civic Resistance “Pedro Luis Boitel,” and a longtime activist for the rights of political prisoners and human rights in Cuba.  Her activism is based on the model of non-violent civil disobedience and has included prison sit-ins and hunger strikes. Ms. Antúnez is an expert on the political situation in Cuba, including human rights issues, resistance movements and oppositionists, and government surveillance and mechanisms of control. She has testified on the conditions of Cuba before several governmental bodies as well as nongovernmental organizations.  Ms. Antúnez has been targeted and harassed by the regime, forcing her a year ago to join the Cuban exile community in the United States as a political refugee. She is also the sister of Jorge Luis García Perez (Antúnez), one of tonight’s honorees.  
#“Religion and Democracy: Allies or Antagonists?”#November 4, 2008#“Religion and Democracy: Allies or Antagonists?”  is the topic of the fifth annual Seymour Martin Lipset Lecture on Democracy in the World, which will be delivered by Jean Bethke Elshtain on Wednesday, November 12, at 6:00 pm at the Embassy of Canada in Washington, DC. Dr. Elshtain’s remarks will address themes that include the inseparability of American democracy from religion, the prospects for democracy in the Islamic world, and the essential role played by civil society in determining the health of any democracy.Dr. Jean Bethke Elshtain is the Laura Spelman Rockefeller Professor of Social and Political Ethics in the Divinity School at the University of Chicago. A political philosopher whose task has been to show the connections between our political and ethical convictions, her many books include Public Man, Private Woman: Women in Social Thought; The Family in Political Thought; Meditations on Modern Political Thought; Women and War; Democracy on Trial (a New York Times “Notable Book” for 1995); Augustine and the Limits of Politics; Real Politics: Political Theory and Everyday Life; New Wine in Old Bottles: Politics and Ethical Discourse; and Who Are We? Critical Reflections, Hopeful Possibilities, for which she received the Theologos Award for Best Academic Book 2000 by the Association of Theological Booksellers. In 2003, she published Just War Against Terror: The Burden of American Power in a Violent World, which was named one of the best non-fiction books of 2003 by Publishers Weekly. In 2006, she was appointed by President George W. Bush to the Council of the National Endowment for the Humanities, and also delivered the prestigious Gifford Lectures at the University of Edinburgh, joining such previous Gifford Lecturers as William James, Hannah Arendt, Karl Barth, and Reinhold Niebuhr. Elshtain’s lectures were published in June 2008 in her latest book, Soveriegnty: God, State, and Self.The Lipset Lecture, which is cosponsored by the National Endowment for Democracy (NED) and the Munk Centre for International Studies of the University of Toronto, is named for one of the great scholars of democracy and public intellectuals of the twentieth century. “Marty Lipset’s scholarship on themes like the conditions for democracy, political parties, voting behavior and public opinion constitutes one of the most prolific and insightful bodies of work on democracy ever produced by a single author,” said NED President Carl Gershman.Lipset, who died in December 2006, was also one of the most important comparative analysts of the two great democracies of North America, and a strong advocate for US-Canadian cooperation. The joint US-Canadian sponsorship of the Lipset Lecture provides an opportunity for influential audiences in both countries to hear and discuss a major intellectual statement on democracy each year and serves as a catalyst for further cooperation between Canada and the United States in the promotion of democracy and democratic ideas around the world. The lecture also serves as an intellectual platform for men and women who, like Lipset, have made important contributions to our thinking about key issues of democracy through their writings and other accomplishments.For more information on the National Endowment for Democracy, please visit www.ned.org. For more information on the Embassy of Canada, please visit www.canadianembassy.org.This event is open to the media. Press should RSVP to Jane Jacobsen at 202-378-9700 or jane@ned.org.Who: Jean Bethke Elshtain, National Endowment for Democracy, Embassy of Canada What: Fourth Annual Seymour Martin Lipset Lecture on Democracy in the World Where: Embassy of Canada, 501 Pennsylvania Ave., NW, Washington, DC When: Wednesday, November 12, 2008, 6:00 p.m. – 7:30 p.m. Columbia Professor Dr. Andrew J. Nathan will deliver...Enlightened post Cold War Initiative for Peace Building...Around the world, governments are devising new and elaborate methods to obstruct...
#Memorial Program Will Honor Legacy Of Bronislaw Geremek#September 4, 2008#On Thursday, September 11, at 11:00 AM, the National Endowment for Democracy (NED), in cooperation with the Embassy of Poland, will host a memorial gathering to honor the life and work of former Polish foreign minister Bronislaw Geremek, whose life was tragically cut short when he died in a car accident on July 13 at the age of 76.Confirmed speakers who will be paying tribute to Dr. Geremek include, Librarian of Congress James Billington , former National Security Advisor Zbigniew Brzezinski , Washington Post Columnist and Deputy Editorial Page Editor Jackson Diehl , NED Senior Director for Europe and Eurasia Nadia Diuk , Under Secretary of State for Global Affairs and Democracy Paula Dobriansky , Johns Hopkins University adjunct professor (SAIS) Charles Gati , American Jewish Committee Executive Director David Harris , Ambassador Max Kampelman , and US Senator Richard Lugar (R-IN). Polish Ambassador Robert Kupiecki and NED president Carl Gershman will also make remarks. Written rememberances will be available from friends and colleagues unable to attend including, Madeleine Albright, Barbara Mikulski, Lezsek Kolakowski, Adam Michnik, and Alexandr Vondra.A survivor of the Holocaust, Bronislaw Geremek became a leading academic, dissident, statesman and diplomat in post-war Poland. A gifted social historian, he joined the Solidarity trade union movement in 1980 and emerged as a key advisor to Lech Walesa in the Gdansk shipyards. Imprisoned during martial law, Geremek played a leading role in the 1989 Round Table Agreement that negotiated an end to Communist rule in Poland, setting in motion the events that led to the collapse of Soviet domination throughout Eastern Europe. Geremek’s contributions to his country’s democratic transition were constant in the years after 1989, culminating in his role as foreign minister, when he guided Poland’s entry into NATO and the European Union. NED is a private, nonprofit, grant-making organization created in 1983 to strengthen democratic institutions around the world. It is active in more than 90 countries, supporting grassroots, democratic initiatives. More information about NED can be found at  www.ned.org .This event is open to the press.  What : Memorial program honoring Bronislaw Geremek, former Polish Foreign Minister  Who : James Billington, Zibniew Brzezinski, Jackson Diehl, Nadia Diuk, Paula Dobriansky, Charles Gati, David Harris, Max Kampelman, Amb. Robert Kupiecki, Senator Richard Lugar  When : Thursday, September 11, 2008, 11:00 – 12:15 PM  Where : National Endowment for Democracy, 1025 F Street, Washington, DC 8 th Floor  Contact : Jane Riley Jacobsen 202-378-9700 or  jane@ned.orgThe National Endowment for Democracy (NED) is issuing a comprehensive new study...For his life-long service to America and to the cause...Remarks given at the "Civic Education and Democracy...Political economist Gabor Scheiring examined the socioeconomic...Carl Gershman reflects on the state of democracy in...The July 2018 issue features an eight-article cluster on rising illiberalism...
#Xiao Qiang’s 2008 Democracy Award Speech#June 22, 2008#Xiao Qiang accepting on behalf of Zhang JianhongI am proud to stand here, receiving this honor on behalf of Zhang Jianhong.This is a special award for Zhang, since he was a participant in 1989 Democracy Movement.  From Tiananmen Square to the age of the Internet, Mr. Zhang reminds us that the spirit of free speech cannot, and will not be crushed by any forms of tyranny, whether they are tanks, machine guns, prison cells, or the Great Firewall.An American Internet pioneer once famously said that “Information wants to be free !”  I want to say that censorship in Chinese cyberspace will eventually fail because “Chinese people want to be free!”Thank you,  National Endowment for Democracy,  for this recognition. Johan Lagerkvist is professor of Chinese language and culture at Stockholm University.On Thursday, May 14, the National Endowment for Democracy...The June 2019 edition of the Forum newsletter features...The Washington Post editorial board discussed the findings...He addressed the struggle for democracy and the rule...A number of Latin American countries are in the midst of turmoil. Brazil has...
#Wang Tiancheng’s 2008 Democracy Award Speech#June 22, 2008#For A Brighter ChinaMr. Chairman,  Present members of Congress,  Ladies and gentlemen: We are gathered here for the sake of freedom for humanity, for the sake of a brighter tomorrow, and to honor the conscience and courage of humanity.  I am privileged to stand here to accept the annual Democracy Award from the National Endowment for Democracy on behalf of two exceptional Chinese individuals, Mr. Hu Shigen and Mr. Yao Fuxin.At this moment, we should be attributing to them honor and admiration, but my heart is heavy when I mention their names, for as of today, they are still being held in prison.Mr. Hu Shigen, has already spent 16 years in prison, is aging beyond his years, and is plagued by illnesses, all for his efforts to break the silence and organize citizens and workers when fear gripped the country after the June 4th massacure.I myself and 14 others were tried along with Mr. Hu Shigen.  ……………Do you have a personal story about how Hu Shigen inspired you that you could add in two sentences?While I do not personally know the second awardee, Mr. Yao Fuxin, I followed his success in organizing more than 40,000 workers from 20 factories in Liaoning province who took to the streets in 2002 to protest corrupt officials.  His bravery, determination, and vision were inspiring.The award today not only recognizes these individuals for their self-sacrifice, but also represents the international community’s sense of responsibility towards human freedom. The support of the international community does make a difference.It is clear that the desire for freedom and justice will continue to inspire people in China to fight heroically.  It is precisely because of this, I firmly believe, that the Goddess of Democracy will one day smile upon China and its fate will be bright.  Leaders of authoritarian regimes should take note of the words of Alexis de Tocqueville when he said: “Would it, then, be wise to imagine that a social movement, the causes of which lie so far back, can be checked by the efforts of one generation?” On June 9, the National Endowment for Democracy honored leaders of organizations...The April 2018 issues features an eight-article cluster...Please join us for a discussion on “Democratizing...Apr 30, 2015Forum Launches New Website: "Resurgent...
#Teng Biao’s 2008 Democracy Award Speech#June 22, 2008#Reflections on receiving the AwardThe National Endowment for Democracy has, in the past, given this Democracy Award to Mr. Havel; and it is not a coincidience that his philosophy and actions have inspired countless rights defenders and intellectuals in China.The fates of people are interconnected, the violation of freedom and dignity to one individual is a violation to all.  Freedom and democracy is the profession of all mankind. Yet, this reasoning as been called an empty “fantasy,” and gradually abandoned or mocked. The stories of persecution against people who have faced these challenges are unknown to the outside world, and many around them cannot understand their choice to struggle for freedom.Life must continue for those people living under authoritarian regimes, whether they are given praise or not.  Where I am from, even to protect basic dignities, to obey the call of conscience inside one’s heart, requires tremendous effort and sacrifice.   For example, in March of this year, when I was abducted by secret police, they covered my head, stuffed me into a car, brought me to a secret interrogation room, took out an already printed version of my article, and threatened: “just based on these articles, we can imprison you for five or ten years.”  They confiscated my passport, cancelled my lawyer’s license, and again and again told me to keep my mouth shut. In several prisons in Guizhou, Jiangxi, Hebei, and Guangdong, I have had conversations with several prisoners wrongfully sentenced to death because of confessions extracted through torture.  They all believe that one day they will be proven innocent and given freedom.I too have hope and believe that greater freedom will come to China one day, but not because time will bring change.  Rather, it will be earned by the hard work of citizens.My thanks to the National Endowment for Democracy; you stand on the side of democracy and the people, not out of a cost-benefit analysis, but out of a commitment to shoulder a common responsibility toward humanity. While the fight for freedom itself enriches our spirit and makes us happy, because of the existence of NED and other international supporters’ voices that firmly guard universal values, those alienated, forgotten, and imprisoned people shall feel some joy and comfort.I know that if Chen Guangcheng could communicate from his prison cell he would join me in thanking all of you for standing with us in our struggle.China at the Tipping Point?Andrew J. Nathan Class of 1919 Professor of...With great sadness, the National Endowment for Democracy...Testimony before the U.S. House Foreign Affairs Committee,...Donald K. Emmerson is director of the Southeast Asia..."Power 3.0 | Authoritarian Resurgence, Democratic Resilience" is a podcast that...
#Li Heping’s 2008 Democracy Award Speech#June 22, 2008#Today, I stand in a stronghold of Freedom and I am excited and inspired.I want to thank all of those men and women concerned about human rights in China and around the globe. It is your hardwork that makes the world a better place.God created humanity and every person has rights to four inalienable freedoms as mentioned by President Roosevelt:Because humanity has limited tolerance of others, in many places around the world, to different degrees, these freedoms and the right of citizens to be their own masters is not guaranteed. However, Chinese and Americans are working together tirelessly to improve human rights in the world.  Americans have won respect of peoples from many different countries because of their outstanding contributions to human rights. Between now and the time NED began to make the Democracy Award, 10 Chinese people have received this award and awareness of human rights has gradually increased.  To have so many Chinese citizens receive this award makes it clear that China’s democracy is still not perfect and it needs the efforts and resources of more Chinese citizens as well as support from the international community to improve it. Honorable ladies and gentlemen, if you consider commendable my normal professional labors and honor my efforts in the name of freedom, then I am filled with awe and am thankful beyond measure. But all the glory belongs to god.Authors of the report, "Sharp Power": Rising Authoritarian Influence, discussed...In this episode of Democracy Ideas, Anne-Marie Brady...The Washington Post editorial board discussed the findings...On September 18, 2007, the National Endowment for Democracy...Shanthi Kalathil testified before the U.S.-China Economic...
#Li Baiguang’s 2008 Democracy Award Speech#June 22, 2008#I am grateful to NED for giving me the 2008 Democracy Award, which is great encouragement for me to continue to utilize the law to advance religious freedom in ChinaIn the past 3 decades, China has achieved rapid economic development but political reforms remain relatively stagnant, and in some aspects have even deteriorated.The result of a lack of supervision and checks and balances within China’s one party system is that China is lagging behind in advancing freedom, democracy, human rights, and rule of law.However, my experiences tell me, that using law to protect citizens’ rights and freedom can play a role in restricting abuses of official authority and in empowering citizens in China.  As a lawyer, and with the support of my fellow countrymen and the international community, I will continue to utilize the law to fight arbitrary abuse of power, to educate officials, to seek justice for victims of rights abuses, and promote rule of law in China. This article is based on remarks Carl Gershman delivered at the conference “North...The April 2019 issue of the Journal of Democracy features...The International Forum for Democratic Studies asked...The International Forum for Democratic Studies asked...On July 16, before giving out the Democracy Award, the NED hosted a day-long...
#Nasteh Dahir Farah assassinated in Somalia#June 10, 2008#It is with great sadness that we at the National Endowment for Democracy (NED) have received the news of the death of a friend and partner, Nasteh Dahir Farah, Vice President of the National Union of Somali Journalists (NUSOJ).On June 7, 2008, Nasteh Farah was gunned down in front of his home in Kismayo as his wife and infant son looked on. He died a short time later at a nearby hospital. At the time of his death Nasteh was working as a journalist for the BBC Somali Service and freelancing for Reuters.In 2005, Nasteh was elected Vice President of NUSOJ, the culmination of many years of commitment to the profession and to the Union. He was known for his professional neutrality when reporting on the armed conflict, his detailed investigations into attacks on media freedom and his compassion for the families of fellow journalists killed during the course of their work.There have been attacks on journalists and media houses in Somalia in recent years and most of these crimes remain unsolved. A culture of impunity has become the norm in these attacks on members of the media, making their profession one of the most dangerous in Somalia.In April 2008, NUSOJ was presented with the Democracy Courage Award by the World Movement for Democracy at its recent summit in Kiev, Ukraine. There could be no better example of the courage and sacrifice of Somali journalists than Nasteh Dahir Farah. Nasteh will be missed but the loss of his presence further solidifies our resolve to support the work for which he gave his life, to end the culture of impunity and to strengthen the cause of press freedom in Somalia.Voices of Civil Society in IraqWednesday, March 25, 2015 from 12:00 PM to...Ecuadorian media activist Cesar Ricaurte discussed...On Tuesday, September 18, the National Endowment for...NED hosts "Girl Child" movie screening and discussion...The World Movement for Democracy will honor three exceptional...On World Press Freedom Day, we honor activists like Rafael Marques de Morais,...
#The National Endowment for Democracy, the Olympics, and Tibet#June 4, 2008#Recent English and Chinese-language articles published online by PRC government-controlled news services regarding Olympics-related activities and recent protests in Tibetan areas contain inaccurate and misleading statements about the National Endowment for Democracy (NED). Unsubstantiated assertions have appeared in Xinhua News , Globe, and China Youth Daily stories and have been copied nearly verbatim by William Engdahl, the Straits Times, and the Hong Kong Economic Journal .The National Endowment for Democracy neither organized nor funded the March demonstrations inside Tibet, which appear to have occurred spontaneously. As some NED grantees point out, suppressive governmental policies in Tibet and long-standing citizen grievances provide more relevant explanations for the protests.In relation to the Olympics, as expected and as they have the right to do, numerous human rights and other groups around the world have used the media attention of the Games and the torch relay to highlight their concerns that the Chinese government has fallen short of its Olympic promises. The actions of such groups were largely orderly, peaceful demonstrations of opinion. Regrettably, there were a few exceptions; NED did not support these activities.Leading up to the Olympics, NED has funded a number of projects designed to bring attention to human rights and every one of these projects adheres to the same high standards of accurate reporting and principled, peaceful advocacy that NED grantees have always upheld. NED-supported work has included a wide variety of efforts by groups to document and highlight China’s poor human rights record through careful monitoring, research, and substantiated reporting, through outreach to the United Nations as well as to Chinese and international media and opinion leaders, and through peaceful advocacy for the fundamental human rights of all citizens, whether of Tibetan, Han or other ethnic background.For over 15 years, NED has provided modest grants to support Tibetan human-rights and prodemocracy nongovernmental organizations based in exile, for humanitarian assistance and projects designed to promote freedom of expression and the free flow of information, to promote democratic values via intellectual forums and community participation, and to conduct democratic civic education in Tibetan communities outside of China.On Tuesday June 17, the National Endowment for Democracy will honor the heroic...In her CIMA report, Shanthi Kalathil delves into China’s...Read remarks by NED President Carl Gershman at “North...The National Endowment for Democracy will honor defenders...In the July 2018 issue of the Journal of Democracy,...Johan Lagerkvist is professor of Chinese language and culture at Stockholm University.
#2008 NED Democracy Award to honor Heroes of Human Rights and Democracy in China#June 1, 2008#Life and work of Tom Lantos will be honored with Democracy Service MedalOn Tuesday June 17, the National Endowment for Democracy will honor the heroic efforts of Chinese workers, lawyers, and writers working to advance democratic values and fundamental rights within China with the presentation of its annual Democracy Award. Chen Guangchen , Zhang Jianhong, Yao Fuxin and Hu Sigen, who are all serving sentences in Chinese prisons, are four of the recipients. Other honorees cannot be named publicly until the award ceremony. The award presentation and a roundtable discussion will take place on Capitol Hill in the Caucus Room (345) of the Cannon House Office Building at 3:30 – 5:00 PM. Commenting on the selection of this year’s awardees, NED Chairman Vin Weber said, “As China prepares to host the Olympic Games, with the attention of the world focused on that country’s many achievements and its rich culture, the world must not forget those who labor in the background to secure the most basic rights and protections for the people of China – the right to associate, to write and speak freely, to worship, to organize for better working conditions, for the rule of law, and for and the protection of basic human dignity.”The award presentation will be preceded by a roundtable discussion, Law, Rights and Democracy in China: Perspectives of Leading Advocates. The honorees will be joined in the discussion by other notable activists and advocates for basic rights in China, including Han Dongfang, – executive director of China Labour Bulletin, Bob Fu – founder of the China Aid Association and a student leader of the 1989 Tiananmen democracy movement, Sharon Hom – executive director of Human Rights in China, Xiao Qiang – founder and publisher of China Digital Times,Wang Tiancheng – a founder of the Liberal Democratic Party of China and the Free Labor Union of China, and Yang Jianli – a Chinese democracy activist recently released from prison, who now is president of Initiatives for China.The Democracy Awards, which this year focus on work in the areas of Human Rights and Rule of Law, Religious Freedom, Freedom of Expression, and Worker Rights, will be presented by three members of the US Congress, Reps. Chris Smith (R-NJ), Adam Schiff (D-CA), and Frank Wolf (R-VA), as well as the vice chairman of NED’s Board of Directors Richard Gephardt, who is the former House Minority Leader. Under Secretary of State for Democracy and Global Affairs Paula Dobriansky and House Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman Howard Berman (D-CA) will also make remarks at the program.NED will also honor the life-long contributions of one of the US Congress’ most stalwart supporters of human rights in China and every other part of the world, the late Tom Lantos (D-CA) with the presentation of its Democracy Service Medal. Read the remarks made by Carl Gershman on the occasion of the commemoration...The International Forum for Democratic Studies asked...The International Forum for Democratic Studies assesses...2007 Democracy Service MedalPresented to: Mort Abramowitz, ...The National Endowment for Democracy is proud to honor...Accepting the Medal, Rep. Wolf focused on the courage of Chinese activists like...
#NED Calls on Serbian Government to Protect Human Rights Defenders and Journalists#February 21, 2008#February 21, 2008The National Endowment for Democracy (NED) has petitioned the government of Serbia to act to protect human rights defenders and journalists who have come under threat since the recent declaration of independence by Kosovo.  The letter, addressed to President Boris Tadic, Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica and National Assembly Speaker Oliver Dulic, was co-signed by representatives of the Swedish Helsinki Committee for Human Rights, Impunity Watch and NED.NED is particularly concerned for the safety of Natasa Kandic, director of the Humanitarian Law Center and a longtime NED grantee, who has been singled out as a target of hate speech and open demands for physical attacks against her.   Kandic was the recipient of NED’s 2000 Democracy Award for her courageous work documenting war crimes on all sides of the Balkan conflict. The National Endowment for Democracy is a private, nonprofit organization created in 1983 to strengthen democratic institutions around the world through nongovernmental efforts. It is governed by an independent, bipartisan board of directors. With its annual congressional appropriation, it makes nearly 1,000 grants each year to support pro-democracy groups in Africa, Asia, Central and Eastern Europe, Latin America, the Middle East and the former Soviet Union.An International Forum working paper on foreign authoritarian influence from...Ivana Howard, Program Officer for Central and Eastern...Government leaders trying to illicitly line their pockets...Fifteen years after the genocide at Srebrenica, NED...The International Forum is pleased to welcome nine new members to the Network...
#NED Mourns the loss of Congressman Tom Lantos#February 15, 2008#The Board of Directors of the National Endowment for Democracy extends its deepest sympathy to the family, friends and colleagues of Congressman Tom Lantos, who died today, February 11, 2008.“The loss of Tom Lantos will be felt around the world, as those who fight for freedom and human dignity everywhere have lost a true friend and ally,” said NED Chairman Vin Weber.Congressman Lantos’ contribution to the struggle for human rights and democracy was historic. “Tom was astoundingly eloquent and passionately committed when he spoke about human rights,” said NED president Carl Gershman. “He not only spoke from the heart, but he acted with a fierce determination born of a lifetime of struggle. He knew all the dissidents personally, visited them whenever he could, and identified with their suffering and spirit.  He was not only their chief advocate but also a cherished symbol of our nation’s commitment to human freedom.”
#Pierre Hassner will deliver Fourth Annual Lipset Lecture#November 4, 2007#“Russia’s Transition to Autocracy: The Implications for World Politics,” is the topic of the fourth annual Seymour Martin Lipset Lecture on Democracy in the World, which will be delivered by Pierre Hassner on Thursday, November 15 at 6:00 pm at the Embassy of Canada in Washington, DC.Pierre Hassner is research director emeritus at CERI (the Centre d’Etudes et de Recherches Internationales) in Paris. For many years he was a professor of international relations at the Institut d’Etudes Politiques in Paris and a senior visiting lecturer at the European Center of Johns Hopkins University in Bologna. Currently a visiting professor at the Université du Québec à Montréal, he has previously held visiting appointments at the University of Chicago, Harvard University, and the Institut des Hautes Etudes Internationales in Geneva. Professor Hassner’s major writings have focused on war and peace, totalitarianism, ethics and international relations, and international order. In 2005 he received France’s prestigious Tocqueville Prize, which is awarded every two years; past recipients include such luminaries as Raymond Aron, Karl Popper, Octavio Paz, and Leszek Kolakowski.The Lipset Lecture, which is cosponsored by the National Endowment for Democracy (NED) and the Munk Centre for International Studies of the University of Toronto, is named for one of the great scholars of democracy and public intellectuals of the twentieth century. “Marty Lipset’s scholarship on themes like the conditions for democracy, political parties, voting behavior and public opinion constitutes one of the most prolific and insightful bodies of work on democracy ever produced by a single author,” said NED President Carl Gershman.Lipset, who died in December 2006, was also one of the most important comparative analysts of the two great democracies of North America, and a strong advocate for US-Canadian cooperation. The joint US-Canadian sponsorship of the Lipset Lecture provides an opportunity for influential audiences in both countries to hear and discuss a major intellectual statement on democracy each year and serves as a catalyst for further cooperation between Canada and the United States in the promotion of democracy and democratic ideas around the world. The lecture also serves as an intellectual platform for men and women who, like Lipset, have made important contributions to our thinking about key issues of democracy through their writings and other accomplishments.For more information on the National Endowment for Democracy, please visit www.ned.org. For more information on the Embassy of Canada, please visit www.canadianembassy.org.This event is open to the media. Press should RSVP to Jane Jacobsen at 202-378-9700 or jane@ned.org.Who: Pierre Hassner, National Endowment for Democracy What: Fourth Annual Seymour Martin Lipset Lecture on Democracy in the World Where: Embassy of Canada, 501 Pennsylvania Ave., NW, Washington, DC When: Thursday, November 15, 2007, 6:00 p.m. – 7:30 p.m.Christopher Walker and Jessica Ludwig discuss how Russia and China's authoritarian...Apr. 20, 2015Worth Reading: Journal of Democracy...In the wake of the 2013-14 Maidan protests and change...On February 14, the National Endowment for Democracy...
#Murder of Independent Journalist Alisher Saipov Deserves Impartial Investigation by Kyrgyzstan#October 25, 2007#The National Endowment for Democracy (NED) was shocked and outraged to hear the news that our good friend Alisher Saipov, editor of the Uzbek newspaper Siyosat, was murdered on October 24 following a smear campaign directed against him that has continued even after his death. We send our condolences to the family and colleagues of this beloved young man.Alisher Saipov established himself as one of the best reporters in Central Asia. As founder and editor of the newspaper Siyosat, which NED was proud to support, he was able to reach a broad readership that has little access to independent reporting on topics that include human rights abuses in Uzbekistan, the manipulation of the upcoming presidential election there, and the criminal activities of Uzbek security services operating across the border in Kyrgyzstan. Because of his reporting of such abuses, many friends and colleagues were concerned about his safety during the period leading up to Alisher’s murder, with attacks against him on Uzbek web pages and surveillance of his office.After his death, an October 30 press release of the Interior Ministry of Kyrgyzstan, tried to blacken Alisher’s reputation by linking his name to Islamic extremism, a crude attempt to divert attention from the real issue, which is the threat he was under from those who objected to his reporting. In fact, Alisher Saipov’s record of professionalism and courage speaks for itself. He was a bright and brave young man, who exemplified hope for the future and was a source of pride and hope for the Uzbek and Kyrgyz people.The same is true of the other journalists associated with Siyosat, whose safety may also be at risk. Since the murder, the computers, documentation, and other property of the Siyosat newspaper have been seized by the police. The staff of the newspaper has been subjected to daily rounds of questioning by police and security officials. Other journalists in Osh, Kyrgyzstan, who have attempted to report about this case have also been denounced and harassed by the police.Kyrgyzstan seeks to be seen as an island of freedom in Central Asia. If the government wishes to advance that image, it must distance itself from this repugnant smear campaign against Alisher, cease harassing the staff of Siyosat, and provide them and other independent journalists in Kyrgyzstan with the protection they need to continue their work. Not least, the authorities need to carry out a serious and impartial investigation of the murder of Alisher Saipov.
#2007 Democracy Award to Spotlight Press Freedom Activists from Egypt, Thailand, Russia and Venezuela will be honored by NED on September 18#September 4, 2007#On September 18, 2007, the National Endowment for Democracy will present its annual Democracy Award to an organization and three individuals who have bravely contributed to increasing and preserving press freedom and independent media in Egypt, Southeast Asia, Venezuela, and Russia.“A free press is a critical ingredient for any democracy,” said National Endowment for Democracy Chairman Vin Weber. “In countries with little or limited press freedom, independent journalists and activists committed to providing citizens with honest news and information often find themselves in the vanguard of the struggle for democracy, sometimes with their lives on the line. This year’s Democracy Award calls attention to the courage of those journalists who risk so much.”The four recipients of the 2007 Democracy Award are:Confirmed speakers at the Capitol Hill Award Ceremony include US Senator Richard Lugar (R-IN), Rep. Gregory Meeks (D-NY), and Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL). The Democracy Award presentation and reception will be preceded by a panel discussion addressing the topic “Defending Free Media in Difficult Environments.” In addition to the four honorees, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), who is co-chair of the Congressional Caucus on Freedom of the Press, has been invited to participate on the panel.The National Endowment for Democracy is a private, nonprofit, bipartisan grant-making organization created in 1983 to strengthen democratic institutions around the world. It is active in more than 90 countries, supporting grassroots, democratic initiatives. It now houses the Center for International Media Assistance (CIMA), which is devoted to strengthening the field of media assistance. More information about NED and the Democracy Award can be found at www.ned.org.What: National Endowment for Democracy 2007 Democracy Award Presentation and panel discussion  When: September 18 3:30 – 5:30 Panel Discussion, “Defending Free Media in Difficult Environments” 5:30 – 7:30 Reception and Award presentation Where: Rayburn House Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 Panel: Room 2325 Reception: Room B-339 Contact: Jane Riley Jacobsen (202) 378-9700, or jane@ned.org.National Endowment for Democracy 2007 Democracy Award HonoreesKavi Chongkittavorn A tireless campaigner for press freedom throughout Southeast Asia and, indeed, throughout the world, Kavi Chongkittavorn is the assistant group editor of Nation Media Group, publisher of The Nation, Krungthep Turakij and Kom Chat Luek in Thailand. Kavi has been a journalist for more than two decades, covering Thai and regional politics. He was a bureau chief in Phnom Penh, Cambodia from 1988-1990 and Hanoi, Vietnam from 1990-1992. He also served as special assistant to the secretary general at the Jakarta-based Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) from 1993-1994 before returning to journalism.In 1993, Kavi was a Reuters Fellow at Oxford, and in 2001, a Nieman Fellow at Harvard. He was named the Human Rights Journalist of 1998 to commemorate the 50th Anniversary of the UN Declaration of Human Rights by Amnesty International, Thailand. From 1999-2003, he was the president of Thai Journalists Association. Since 1999, he has chaired the Bangkok-based regional free media advocacy group, Southeast Asian Press Alliance. Kavi also serves as Jury President for the Guillermo Cano World Press Freedom Prize, UNESCO, which consists of fourteen professional journalists and editors from all over the world. Under his leadership, UNESCO awarded its press freedom prize posthumously to Anna Politkovskaya at its recent conference in Colombia.Hisham Kassem One of Egypt’s most prominent publishers and democracy activists, Hisham Kassem was, until recently, the publisher of Al-Masry Al-Youm (“The Egyptian Today”) Egypt’s first independent daily paper. He is also former Vice President of the liberal opposition Hizb al-Ghad (Tomorrow Party), and has served as chairman of the Egyptian Organization for Human Rights.Last year the Washington Post’s Jackson Diehl noted that “It’s worth marveling at the mini-revolution his paper has wrought,” pointing out that before Hisham launched Al-Masry Al-Youm, Egyptian [daily papers] consisted solely of official organs such as al-Ahram, whose editors are appointed by the regime.”Hisham is a staunch advocate of independent journalism, noting that “the manipulation of media by politics during the past 50 years has led to a serious drop in readership.” He stresses the importance of transparency in newspaper ownership and funding for preventing corruption and covert political influence. Egypt is one of only 12 states that impose prison sentences for libel. “That makes the press a risky investment, which is plainly bad,” he says, “because all press must be owned by private, joint-stock companies without political agendas if we’re to have a free flow of information.”Instituto Prensa y Sociedad (IPYS) – Venezuela IPYS-Venezuela was founded in 2002 during a period of growing concern about the state of press freedom of expression in Venezuela. It is the Venezuelan branch of a regional organization established in 1993 by Peruvian journalists, editors and media owners to defend freedom of expression and freedom of the press throughout Latin America.Over the past five years, IPYS-Venezuela has become an authoritative voice on freedom of expression issues in Venezuela, and is a point of reference for journalists, academics and human rights defenders. Drawing on the IPYS methodology, IPYS-Venezuela has established a national network of correspondents in nine cities throughout Venezuela. These correspondents are responsible for continuously monitoring press conditions, receiving information from journalists on attacks or threats, investigating the cases to ensure they are credible, and reporting them to IPYS-Venezuela’s central office.In 2006 alone, IPYS-Venezuela and its correspondents documented 65 alerts concerning freedom of expression and freedom of the press violations; 31 in Caracas and 34 in the interior of the country. These reports were coordinated with the main office in Lima and distributed via the International Freedom of Expression Exchange (IFEX) to an international audience. Additionally, IPYS-Venezuela annually hosts a series of training workshops to strengthen journalistic practices in Venezuela.The director of IPYS-Venezuela is Ewald Scharfenberg, who will accept the award on the organization’s behalf.Anna Politkovskaya October 7, 2007 will mark the first anniversary of the murder of Russian journalist Anna Politkovskaya. Throughout her distinguished career as a Russian journalist, Anna was an outspoken advocate for human rights and an end to the devastating war in Chechnya. Up to the day of her death, Anna reported on the corruption and abuses of high-ranking officials and the need to protect those who were victims of the war. Her career was marked by a determination to report the truth regardless of the consequences, for which she paid with her life. Earlier this month she received UNESCO’s World Press Freedom Prize on the 10th anniversary of the award, the first time it was awarded posthumously.Anna’s award will be accepted by her colleague at Novaya Gazeta Elena Milashina, a courageous investigative journalist in her own right. Ms. Milashina has reported from Chechnya on a number of occasions, focusing primarily on investigations of the Beslan tragedy.On June 9, the National Endowment for Democracy honored leaders of organizations...Please join the Americas Society/Council of the Americas,...Thailand on the Brinkfeaturing:Sunai PhasukSenior...On May 25, Nigeria's Transition Monitoring Group (TMG),...The National Endowment for Democracy (NED) will honor...On Monday, October 16 at 11:00 a.m. the National Endowment for Democracy (NED)...
#National Endowment for Democracy Grieves Loss of Two Murdered Journalists in Somalia#August 14, 2007#It is with grief and outrage that the National Endowment for Democracy (NED) learned of the targeted assassination of our esteemed colleague, Ali Iman Sharmarke, the director of Horn Afrik radio. He was killed when a remote-controlled mine was detonated on the route of the funeral procession for Radio Capital Voice director Mahad Ahmed Elmi, who was shot only a few hours earlier by unidentified gunmen in the outlying Mogadishu neighborhood of Gubta.All parties to the armed conflict in Mogadishu have demonstrated a wanton and horrific disregard for the loss and disruption of civilian lives. The deaths of Mr. Elmi and Mr. Sharmarke must be regarded as a coordinated attempt to silence the voices of those committed to the promotion of peace and human rights in Somalia. The Endowment calls on the authorities of the Transitional Federal Government (TFG) to investigate and prosecute those responsible for these horrific crimes.We also condemn the targeted persecution of journalists in Somalia that has claimed six lives this year. The TFG should affirm the principles of press freedom enshrined in the Somali Transitional Federal Charter by taking immediate and public action to ensure the protection of all journalists and media houses.The Endowment wishes to express its solidarity with the Somali media outlets that temporarily suspended programming in protest of the assassinations of their colleagues, and with the nongovernmental organizations and civic groups that continue to press for the realization of basic human rights in Somalia. We offer our sincere condolences to the bereaved families of Mr. Sharmarke and Mr. Elmi, who have suffered profound loss on behalf of the Somali nation. We extend our sympathy to Sahal Adulle of Reuters News Agency, who was injured during the detonation, and to Abdihakin Omar Jimale of Radio Mogadishu, who was the target of a failed assassination attempt last week by unidentified gunmen in the Yaqshid neighborhood of Mogadishu.It is our profound hope that the sacrifice of these courageous people has not been in vain and that their efforts will lead to peace and a better future for the people of Somalia.The October 2017 issue features six essays on Russia's autocracy, a debate on...It is with great sadness that we at the National Endowment...2002 NED Democracy Award honors Heroes of Human...Mr. Matar Ebrahim Matar is a well-known political activist...The Political and Media Situation in Ukraine: A View...Crisis in the Central African Republicpresented byThe Great Lakes Policy...
#Center for International Media Assistance Inaugural Forum: Exposing Corruption and Promoting Good Governance#July 7, 2007#“The International Role of the Media in Exposing Corruption and Promoting Good Governance,” is the topic for the first public meeting of the Center for International Media Assistance (CIMA). The panel discussion in honor of World Press Freedom Day will take place on Wednesday, May 2 from 8:00 – 10:00 am in room HC-5 of the US Capitol.Daniel Kaufman, Director of Global Programs and Governance at the World Bank, will be the featured speaker during the panel discussion, and three journalists will share perspectives from around the world on the impact of media on corruption and governance. Myroslava Gongadze is a reporter and anchor for the Voice of America’s Ukrainian service; Mauricio Herrera Ulloa is an investigative reporter for the Costa Rican daily La Nación; and Joyce Barnathan is president of the International Center for Journalists and former executive editor of BusinessWeek. Honorary co-hosts for the event are the four co-chairs of the Congressional Caucus for the Freedom of the Press: Senator Christopher Dodd (D-Conn.), Senator Richard Lugar (R-Ind.), Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Calif.), and Rep. Mike Pence (R-Ind.). Representative Schiff will also speak at the event.In addition to the panel, the book Media Matters: Perspectives on Advancing Governance and Development from the Global Forum for Media Development (GFMD) will be launched at the event. David Hoffman, president of Internews, and Mark Pomar, president of IREX, will present the GFMD’s new publication.The Center for International Media Assistance is a project of the National Endowment for Democracy (NED). Established in September 2006, CIMA brings together a broad range of media experts with the objective of strengthening support of free and independent media throughout the world. CIMA supports an Advisory Council on International Media Assistance comprising media development professionals, academics, representatives of donor organizations, and other experts, and hopes to improve understanding of the importance of the media and media development by hosting discussions and events, convening working groups, and publishing reports. The Center is also exploring how to encourage greater private sector involvement in media assistance.The Center for International Media Assistance builds upon NED’s longstanding support for free and independent media around the world. In line with the Center’s mission, and with grant support from NED, CIMA is also working to establish media development networks and an information clearinghouse for media professionals. More information about CIMA and NED can be found at www.ned.org.The “internet of things” is made up of device networks that now watch us...This is an important occasion to bring together the...Models of Muckraking:Supporting Investigative Journalism...The topic of a new book published by the Center for...Governments, Gatekeepers and Journalists:What's...As we celebrated World Press Freedom Day, the Center for International Media...
#National Endowment for Democracy to Donate Founding Papers to Library of Congress: June 7 Event to Mark 25th Anniversary of Reagan’s Westminster Address#May 27, 2007# JUNE 7, 2007, WASHINGTON, DC: The National Endowment for Democracy (NED) will donate papers from its founding and early years of operation (1982-1994) to the Library of Congress on Thursday, June 7, the eve of the 25th anniversary of President Ronald Reagan’s historic Westminster Address to the British Parliament, which led to the founding of NED. A panel discussion, signing ceremony and reception will take place in the Madison Building of the Library, from 4:00 – 7:00 p.m.The Legacy of Westminster: Democracy Assistance Since the Founding of NED and the Challenges Ahead is the topic that will be discussed by panelists, Zainab Bangura, Chief Civil Affairs Officer to the U.N. Mission in Liberia; Thomas Carothers, vice president for studies- international politics and governance at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace; Larry Diamond, co-director of NED’s International Forum for Democratic Studies and senior fellow at Stanford University’s Hoover Institution; Jean Bethke Elshtain, Laura Spelman Rockefeller professor of social and political ethics at the University of Chicago; and Anwar Ibrahim, former deputy prime minister of Malaysia.A signing ceremony and reception, with remarks from members of Congress and other distinguished guests will follow the panel. Among expected speakers are Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi, House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer, U.S. Representatives Howard Berman, David Dreier, Mark Kirk, Gregory Meeks, and former Senate Majority Leader Tom Daschle. Associate Librarian for Library Services Deana Marcum and NED President Carl Gershman will also speak.The event will be held in Madison Hall of the Library’s Madison Building located at 101 Independence Avenue, SE, Washington, DC. The panel discussion will begins at 4:00; reception at 5:30. The event is open to invited guests and to the press.BACKGROUNDThe National Endowment for Democracy The National Endowment for Democracy is a private, nonprofit organization created in 1983 to strengthen democratic institutions around the world through nongovernmental efforts. It is governed by an independent, bipartisan board of directors. With its annual congressional appropriation, it makes nearly 1,000 grants each year to support pro-democracy groups in Africa, Asia, Central and Eastern Europe, Latin America, the Middle East and the former Soviet Union.On June 8, 1982, President Ronald Reagan delivered one of his major foreign policy addresses, in which he proposed an initiative “to foster the infrastructure of democracy.” Delivered to a packed Parliamentary chamber in Britain’s Westminster Palace, the Reagan speech would prove to be one of the central contributions to the establishment of a democracy foundation in the United States. The 25th anniversary of this event will be marked with the donation of the organization’s founding papers to the Library of Congress.The Founding Papers (1982-1994) The NED papers constitute a rich historical record chronicling the bipartisan effort to create the flagship institution of America’s democracy assistance work, with a focus on its early years of supporting grassroots democratic initiatives abroad. The materials comprise thousands of documents, speeches, correspondence and photos from the first decade of NED’s operations, as well as from the American Political Foundation, whose study “The Democracy Program” led to the establishment of the NED. Access to the papers will require permission from NED for 20 years (until 2027).The Library of Congress Founded in 1800, the Library of Congress is the nation’s oldest federal cultural institution and the largest library in the world, with more than 134 million items in various languages, disciplines and formats. As the world’s largest repository of knowledge and creativity, the Library is a symbol of democracy and the principles on which this nation was founded.Today, the Library serves Congress and the nation in its 21 reading rooms on Capitol Hill as well as through its award-winning Web site (www.loc.gov).The NED papers will join the more than 11,000 collections–comprising 60 million items–that are housed in the Library’s Manuscript Division. These include the records and papers of several private organizations and individuals engaged in promoting democracy, such as the Atlantic Union Committee, Federal Union, Inc., the personal papers of author, editor and journalist Clarence Streit (1896-1986) and the personal papers of political consultant George Agree (1921-2001). The Manuscript Division houses the papers of American diplomats and foreign policy makers whose collections document all aspects of American foreign policy and engagement with the world.PANELISTSZainab Hawa Bangura, a human rights activist in her native Sierra Leone, serves as chief civil affairs officer to the U.N. Mission in Liberia. In 1995, she founded the Women Organized for a Morally Enlightened Nation (W.O.M.E.N), Sierra Leone’s first nonpartisan women’s political rights organization. In 1996, she co-founded the Campaign for Good Governance, and in 2001 she founded the National Accountability Group. In 2002, she co-founded the Movement for Progress, a political party promoting good governance and the empowerment of women, youth and the disabled in Sierra Leone. Nominated as the party’s chairperson, Bangura ran as the only female candidate in Sierra Leone’s May 2002 presidential elections. A former Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellow at NED, Bangura serves as a member of the Steering Committee of the World Movement for Democracy.Thomas Carothers is the vice president for studies-international politics and governance at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. In this capacity, he oversees the Democracy and Rule of Law Project, which he founded, and the Middle East Program. A leading authority on democratization worldwide as well as an expert on U.S. foreign policy, Carothers is the author or editor of eight critically acclaimed books and many articles in prominent journals and newspapers. He is an adjunct professor at the Johns Hopkins University School of Advanced International Studies and serves on the board of various organizations devoted to democracy promotion. Prior to joining the Endowment, Carothers practiced international and financial law at Arnold & Porter and served as an attorney-adviser in the Office of the Legal Adviser of the U.S. Department of State.Larry Diamond is co-director of the International Forum for Democratic Studies, founding co-editor of the Journal of Democracy and a senior fellow at the Hoover Institution at Stanford University. He has written extensively on democracy in the developing world, especially in Africa and Asia. From 2001 to 2003, he served as a consultant to the U.S. Agency for International Development, helping to devise a new strategy for U.S. foreign assistance by giving more emphasis to democracy and good governance. In 2004, he was a senior advisor to the Coalition Provisional Authority in Baghdad. Diamond is the author of “Developing Democracy: Toward Consolidation” (1999) and “Squandered Victory: The American Occupation and the Bungled Effort to Bring Democracy to Iraq” (2005).Jean Bethke Elshtain, Laura Spelman Rockefeller professor of social and political ethics at the University of Chicago, is a political philosopher who focuses on the connections between political and ethical convictions. She serves as co-chair of the Pew Forum on Religion and Public Life and chair of the Council on Families in America. She is also a member of the Scholars’ Council of the John W. Kluge Center, a body of distinguished international scholars convened by the Librarian of Congress to advise on matters related to the Kluge Center and the Kluge Prize for Lifetime Achievement in the Study of Humanity. Elshtain has written extensively on the themes of the survival of democracies; marriage, families and feminism; and state sovereignty in international relations.Anwar Ibrahim, former deputy prime minister of Malaysia and vice president of the United Malays National Organization, is currently a visiting professor at Georgetown University. In 1971, he started the Muslim Youth Movement of Malaysia, the country’s first nongovernmental organization dedicated to raising social and political awareness and emphasizing social justice and human rights. In 1981, he co-founded the International Institute of Islamic Thought and later set up the Graduate School of Islamic and Social Sciences in Ashburn, Va. His criticism of corruption and abuse of power within the Malaysian government and his vocal demand for reform resulted in his arrest and imprisonment in September 1998. Ibrahim, who led a new democratic movement in Malaysia from his prison cell, was released in September 2004.Leading scholars and election experts will mark the publication of the latest...On this International Women's Day, we honor NED grantees...Read Carl Gershman's keynote address delivered for...The Honorable Vin Weber testifies at the hearing on...
#Albright, McCain and Weber call for release of Le Quoc Quan#April 12, 2007#Former Secretary of State Madeleine Albright, Senator John McCain and National Endowment for Democracy (NED) Chairman Vin Weber are the authors of a letter sent April 12 to the President of Vietnam protesting the March 8 arrest of Le Quoc Quan, a Vietnamese lawyer who was most recently a Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellow at NED.“Quan impressed all who met him with his integrity, passion for assisting the poor, and commitment to assisting Vietnam’s growth and development,” the letter states. “Throughout his fellowship, Quan was an outstanding representative of Vietnam and its people, winning many friends and bringing great credit to his country. The National Endowment for Democracy is honored to have hosted him.“We cannot emphasize strongly enough our deep concern over Quan’s arrest and the dark cloud that his continued detention casts over the image of Vietnam and the prospects for improved ties between our countries. We call upon you to make all necessary arrangements for his swift release.”Albright and McCain serve as Chairmen of the National Democratic Institute and the International Republican Institute respectively, which are key partners of the National Endowment for Democracy. Today’s letter is an important element of an international campaign to protest the recent human rights crackdown in Vietnam, and the arrest of Le Quoc Quan in particular. President of the United States George W. Bush will be the keynote speaker at...Richard Gephardt, longtime Democratic Leader of the...Thank you for supporting the National Endowment for...For his life-long service to America and to the cause...The National Endowment for Democracy (NED) is greatly...In a new report by the International Forum for Democratic Studies, three experts...
#NED Reagan-Fascell Fellow Le Quoc Quan Arrested after Return to Vietnam#April 4, 2007#The National Endowment for Democracy (NED) is greatly troubled by the arrest in Vietnam of Le Quoc Quan. Le Quoc Quan, a lawyer, has recently been in residence at NED on a congressionally-funded Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellowship, pursuing independent research on the role of civil society in emerging democracies. He was arrested on March 8 in his hometown in Nghe An province, only 4 days after his return from Washington to Vietnam. At this time, Le Quoc Quan’s whereabouts are unknown, and there are no public charges against him.“It is a deep insult to the United States that the Vietnamese regime would harass someone in this way who has just participated in a citizen exchange program supported by the US Congress and Department of State,” said NED President Carl Gershman. “Le Quoc Quan is someone who is optimistic about the future of his country, who is most concerned about improving the lives of his fellow citizens, and who is nothing if not a Vietnamese patriot.”The National Endowment for Democracy urges the government of Vietnam to immediately make known the whereabouts of Le Quoc Quan; to make public any charges against him; to allow his family access to visit him; to treat him according to international human rights standards; and to release him.Concerned individuals and organizations who wish to take action are urged to register a protest directly with the Embassy of Vietnam in Washington, DC.CONTACT INFORMATION FOR VIETNAMESE EMBASSY IN WASHINGTONAmbassador H.E. Nguyen Tam Chien. (202) 861 0737 Minister Counselor (Political): Mr. DANG Dinh Quy (202) 861 0737 x230. Minister Counselor – Deputy Chief of Mission: Mr. VU Dang Dzung (202) 861 0737 x 223. Minister Counselor (Congressional Liaison): Ms. NGUYEN Nguyet Nga (202) 861 0737 x 225 Counselor (Political): Mr. NGUYEN Van Trung (202) 861 0737 x335 Embassy of Vietnam in the United States 1233 20th St NW, Suite 400 Washington, DC 20036 Tel. 202.861.0737 Fax 202.861.0917 info@vietnamembassy.us – consular@vietnamembassy.us www.vietnamembassy-usa.org/The authors of a new report produced by the International Forum for Democratic...In a new report by the International Forum for Democratic...Former Secretary of State Madeleine Albright, Senator...Today, authoritarian governments are willfully depriving...Prospects and Conditions for a Transition to Democracy...
#Joint Statement on the Murder of Dusko Kondor#February 27, 2007#The Swedish Helsinki Committee for Human Rights and the National Endowment for Democracy (NED) condemn the brutal murder of human rights activist Mr. Dusko Kondor and urge the authorities of Republika Srpska as well as Republika Srpska police, to effectively find and prosecute the perpetrators of this crime.Dusko Kondor was a founder of the Helsinki Committee for Human Rights in Republika Srpska and Director of the School of Civil Courage within the NGO GARIWO. According to reports from the Helsinki Committee, Kondor was killed at approximately 10:30 pm last night when three attackers fired on him more than 20 times through the door of his apartment with an automatic weapon. Kondor’s 21-year old daughter was also seriously wounded in the attack.The Helsinki Committee for Human Rights in Republika Srpska is one of the few human rights organizations that has openly criticized radical nationalism, war crimes involvement, and corruption within Republika Srpska. The Committee’s efforts to defend each individual’s human rights have generated great respect for the organization among citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina.During the past two years Dusko Kondor had on several occasions received death threats against himself and his family. He repeatedly contacted the local police seeking protection, but to no avail. Indeed, on the very day he was murdered, Kondor approached the police with new death threats he received. His appeals were ignored even when he returned the same afternoon with yet another request for protection.“It’s very, very tragic, not the least for Dusko Kondor’s family, but also for the Helsinki Committee in RS who lost one of their most active members, said Robert Hårdh, Secretary General of the Swedish Helsinki Committee. “The murder of Dusko Kondor is a very hard setback for human rights and the civil society in RS and BiH. This shows the great need for continuing support to human rights NGOs and activists.”“We condemn this heinous crime which was an attack not just on Dusko Kondor and the Helsinki Committee for Human Rights, but on all citizens in Republika Srpska who want to live in peace with their neighbors and build a society based on the rule of law,” said NED President Carl Gershman. “The international community must insist that this crime is properly investigated and prosecuted, and it must also continue to support the brave work of the Helsinki Committee and others who reject these tactics of hatred and intimidation.”For further information, please contact Ivana Howard from the National Endowment for Democracy (ivanah@ned.org) or Natasha Jevtic Esbjornson from the Swedish Helsinki Committee for Human Rights (natasha@shc.se).With great sadness, the National Endowment for Democracy (NED) mourns the loss... The January 2019 edition of the Forum newsletter features...Mr. Pepe Julian Onziema is program director of Sexual...The staff and directors of the National Endowment for...Rachel DeLevie-Orey is a program assistant with the Atlantic Council’s...
#NED Grieves NDI Staff Killed in Iraq#January 21, 2007#The Board of Directors and staff of the National Endowment for Democracy (NED) were profoundly saddened to learn of the losses sustained by our dear friends and colleagues at the National Democratic Institute (NDI) when a convoy of its employees in Iraq was ambushed today, killing four and wounding two others. Since 2003 NDI and it’s staff have worked tirelessly with Iraqis who are bravely pursuing a democratic future for their country. This work, carried out by an international staff (including many Iraqis) across Iraq, and in the open, requires courage, determination and optimism – all characteristics that our fallen and injured colleagues had, and have, in abundance. Our hearts and prayers are with the families and friends of those lost today, and with their colleagues who will continue the pursuit of a democratic Iraq.National Endowment for Democracy's Laith Kubba presents...Voices of Civil Society in IraqWednesday, March 25,...The October 2016 issue features seven essays on the...Reporting on the state of civil society in Iraqi Kurdistan, he will offer recommendations...
#NED Will Honor Memory Of Anna Politkovskaya On October 16#October 8, 2006#On Monday, October 16 at 11:00 a.m. the National Endowment for Democracy (NED) will host a memorial gathering in honor of Anna Politkovskaya, the courageous reporter for the Moscow newspaper Novaya Gazeta who was brutally murdered at her apartment building on Saturday, October 7. The mother of two, Politkovskaya was a fearless journalist committed to reporting the truth about the conflict in Chechnya, which she called “a small corner of hell.”Anna’s colleagues at Novaya Gazeta have called on the Russian public to honor her on October 16. This day, the ninth since her murder, holds special significance in Russia; according to Russian peasant tradition, the soul then leaves the body and is guided by angels to its next destination.The program at NED will include remarks by several friends, colleagues and admirers of Politkovskaya who will share memories and bear witness to her courage, humanity and dedication to truth.This event is open to the press. Interested journalists should contact Jane Jacobsen at (202) 378-9700 or jane@ned.org for further details and to register. NED is located at 1025 F Street, NW, Suite 800, Washington, DC 20004.NED is a private, nonprofit, grant-making organization created in 1983 to strengthen democratic institutions around the world. It is active in more than 90 countries, supporting grassroots, democratic initiatives. More information about NED can be found at www.ned.org.Brutal Censorship: Targeting Journalists in the North CaucasusView Presentation...By Christopher Walker and Robert Orttung, as it appeared...In the wake of the 2013-14 Maidan protests and change...Utilizing its strong position as a dominant energy...International Forum for Democratic Studies Executive Director Christopher Walker...
#Kirk, Galston, and Naim Join NED Board of Directors#October 8, 2006#U.S. Representative Mark Kirk (R-IL), Former Clinton Deputy Assistant for Domestic Policy William A. Galston, and Editor and Publisher of Foreign Policy magazine Moisés Naim, have joined the Board of Directors of the National Endowment for Democracy (NED). All three men were elected to a three-year term by the NED Board at its September 8 meeting.“The endowment is truly fortunate to welcome these three outstanding new board members,” said NED chairman Vin Weber. ” Mark Kirk, Bill Galston, and Moises Naim each bring s a wealth of practical experience to NED’s efforts to support democratic development in every part of the world.”Kirk, representing the 10th district of Illinois since 2000, is a member of the House Appropriations Committee and serves as co-chairman of the Tuesday Group, the caucus of mainstream Republican Members of Congress.Galston is a Senior Fellow in the Brookings Institution’s Governance Studies Program. He was previously Saul Stern Professor at the School of Public Policy at the University of Maryland and the founding Director of the Center for Information and Research on Civic Learning and Engagement.Naim has served as Venezuela’s Minister of Trade and Industry as well as Executive Director at the World Bank. He has written extensively on the political economy of international trade and investment, multilateral organizations, economic reforms, and globalization.NED was created in 1983 as a private, nonprofit, grant-making foundation with a mission to strengthen democratic institutions around the world through nongovernmental efforts. With an annual appropriation from the U.S. Congress, the NED Board, which is independent and bipartisan, makes hundreds of grants each year to support prodemocracy groups in more than 90 countries. The endowment supports projects that promote political and economic freedom and participation, human rights, a strong civil society, independent media and the rule of law.Richard Gephardt, longtime Democratic Leader of the U.S. House of Representatives,...President of the United States George W. Bush will...In an interview with Efecto Naim, NED Vice President...For his life-long service to America and to the cause...Former Secretary of State Madeleine Albright, Senator...Vin Weber's remarks at the presentation of NED's Democracy Service Medal to...
#Saad Eddin Ibrahim To Speak On Toward Islamic Democracies Third Annual Lipset Lecture on Democracy in the World November 1, 2006#October 8, 2006#On Wednesday, November 1, 2006, at 6:00 p.m. the National Endowment for Democracy (NED) will host the third annual Seymour Martin Lipset Lecture on Democracy in the World. The lecture will be held at NED in Washington, DC, and will be delivered by democracy activist and scholar Dr. Saad Eddin Ibrahim on the topic Toward Islamic Democracies.Saad Eddin Ibrahim is founder and chairman of the Ibn Khaldun Center for Development Studies and professor of political sociology at the American University in Cairo. Dr. Ibrahim has been an outspoken advocate of democracy and human rights in the Arab world and his arrest in 2000 and subsequent seven-year sentence for accepting foreign funds without permission and “tarnishing” Egypt’s image sparked a loud outcry from the international community. In 2003 Egypt’s highest appeal court, the Court of Cassation, declared his trials improper and cleared him of all charges. He is the author, coauthor, or editor of more than 35 books in Arabic and English, including Egypt, Islam, and Democracy: Critical Essays (2002). He has written more than 100 scholarly articles, some of which have been translated into as many as 13 languages. Dr. Ibrahim also serves as secretary general of the Egyptian independent Commission for Electoral Review and president of the Egyptian Sociologists Association.The Lipset lecture is named for one of the great scholars of democracy and public intellectuals of the twentieth century. “Marty Lipset’s scholarship on themes like the conditions for democracy, political parties, voting behavior, and public opinion constitutes one of the most prolific and insightful bodies of work on democracy ever produced by a single author,” said NED President Carl Gershman. Lipset has also been one of the most important comparative analysts of the two great democracies of North America, and a strong advocate for US-Canadian cooperation. The lecture, which is jointly sponsored by the University of Toronto’s Munk Centre for International Studies, provides an opportunity for influential audiences in both countries to hear and discuss a major intellectual statement on democracy each year and serves as a catalyst for further cooperation between Canada and the United States in the promotion of democracy and democratic ideas around the world.Dr. Ibrahim will deliver his lecture at the University of Toronto on November 2. Previous lectures were delivered by Fernando Henrique Cardoso (2004) and Francis Fukuyama (2005). Support for this year’s lecture has been generously provided by the Albert Shanker Institute and the American Federation of Teachers.For more information on the National Endowment for Democracy, please visit www.ned.org.This event is open to the media. What: Third Annual Seymour Martin Lipset Lecture on Democracy in the World Where: National Endowment for Democracy, 1025 F St., NW, Suite 800, Washington, DC, 20004 When: 6:00 p.m. – 7:00 p.m. Contact: Jane Jacobsen (202) 378-9700; jane@ned.org
#NED Welcomes Fall 2006 Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellows#October 4, 2006#The National Endowment for Democracy (NED) is pleased to announce the Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellows for Fall 2006. In residence this fall are leading democratic activists, journalists, and scholars from Iran, Liberia, Moldova, Oman, Poland, Ukraine, the United States, Vietnam, and Yemen. Also with us on a nonresidential basis is visiting fellow Jared Genser (U.S.).The Reagan-Fascell program seeks to deepen the knowledge, enrich the skills, broaden the perspectives, and strengthen the morale of some of the world’s most committed and courageous democratic practitioners, journalists, and scholars. Fellows are in residence at International Forum for Democratic Studies, NED’s research and publications arm, in Washington, D.C., which offers a collegial environment for fellows to conduct research and writing; to develop contacts and exchange ideas with counterparts in Washington’s policy, academic, media, and nongovernmental communities; and to build ties that contribute to the development of a global network of democracy advocates.Through its outreach efforts, the Reagan-Fascell program seeks to connect its fellows with the media, policy, and academic communities in Washington, D.C. The program organizes an active calendar of public presentations by the fellows, and promotes contacts between fellows and experts in the U.S. Congress, the Department of State, and other government agencies, as well as at universities, think tanks, and media organizations.The Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellows program was established in 2001 by the U.S. Congress in honor of NED’s two principal founders, former president Ronald Reagan and the late congressman Dante Fascell, and is funded by an annual grant from the U.S. Department of State.For media inquiries, please contact Jane Riley Jacobsen at jane@ned.org or at (202) 378-9700.Fall 2006 Reagan-Fascell Democracy FellowsMr. Ali Afshari (Iran) “The Challenge of Democratization in Iran” October 2006-February 2007Mr. Ali Afshari is a leading Iranian political activist who has championed the cause of democracy for over a decade. Beginning with his involvement in 1995 with the Islamic Student Association at Amir Kabir University, of which he was the secretary for three years, Mr. Afshari has been a tireless advocate of freedom, human rights and democracy. He has published more than fifty essays, conducted numerous interviews, and delivered over 100 speeches on topics relating to democracy in Iran. Imprisoned for his activities in 2000 and 2003, he spent 400 days in solitary confinement. During his fellowship, Mr. Afshari is drawing upon his experience as an opposition activist to assess the major factors contributing to the lack of democracy in Iran.Mr. Hafez Al-Bukari (Yemen) “Monitoring Freedom of Expression in Yemen” October 2006-February 2007Mr. Hafez Al-Bukari is chairman of the Yemeni Polling Center, an NGO that fosters political and electoral awareness, and general secretary of the Yemeni Journalists Syndicate. As a veteran journalist and proponent of human rights and press freedom, Mr. Al-Bukari has written numerous articles in Yemeni and U.S. newspapers, including the Yemen Times, Yemen Observer, the Washington Times, and the National Review. In addition, he is a member of the informal advisory board of the American Enterprise Institute’s Arab Reform program and coordinator of the International Federation of Journalists’ Project in Yemen. During his fellowship, Mr. Al-Bukari is developing a blueprint for a center that monitors freedom of expression in Yemen and the Gulf region.Ms. Rafiah Al-Talei (Oman) “Promoting Women’s Political Participation in Oman” October 2006-January 2007Ms. Rafiah Al-Talei is editor-in-chief of Al Mar’ah, Oman’s only Arabic and English-language women’s magazine, as well as a frequent contributor to the online magazine Gulf in the Media. An experienced journalist specializing in media and women’s rights, she has served as an editor and weekly columnist for Oman’s leading daily newspaper, Oman, and was the contributing editor for the Oman section of Freedom House’s 2005 report on “Women’s Rights in the Arab World.” As a candidate in 2003 for a seat on Oman’s Consultative Council, which she lost by 102 votes, she educated people in her local district regarding the democratic process. Drawing on her experiences as a journalist and political candidate, Ms. Al-Talei’s fellowship project examines the political challenges confronting Omani women today and identifies ways to increase their involvement in the political process.Mr. Michael Boda (Canada/U.S.) “Beyond Free and Fair: International Law as a Standard for Evaluating Elections” October 2006-February 2007Mr. Michael Boda is an international election consultant and has worked with the Inter-Parliamentary Union, the OSCE, the Carter Center, and the U.S. National Association of Secretaries of State on election standards and administration. In 2003-2004, he was a visiting research fellow at the Brookings Institution, where he conducted research on electoral processes. Between 1995 and 2000, he served as senior editor and deputy director of information resources at IFES, where he established and managed three global web-based resources, the Administration and Cost of Elections Project, CNN-IFES Election Watch, and ElectionGuide.org, which provide the public with up-to-date information on elections around the world. During his fellowship, Mr. Boda is developing a framework for assessing elections that integrates the theory and practice of election monitoring and administration. He plans to share his findings in the form of a scholarly article, an observation manual, and via roundtable discussions.Dr. Krzysztof Jasiewicz (Poland/U.S.) “Civil Society, Religion, and Democracy in Postcommunist Poland” October 2006-February 2007Dr. Krzysztof Jasiewicz is professor of sociology at Washington and Lee University in Virginia and a research fellow at the Warsaw-based Institute of Political Studies. A leading expert on voting behavior and political change in Poland, Dr. Jasiewicz has taught courses on sociology, East European politics and societies, and comparative politics at U.S. and Polish universities for the last thirty-five years. He is the author, coauthor, or editor of over ten books in Polish and English, including Founding Elections in Poland, 1991-1993 (with R. Markowski, 2006) and Sustainable Democracy in Post-Communist Europe (with J. Pakulski and J. Higley, 1999) and has published articles on Polish politics and culture in a wide range of academic journals, including the European Journal of Political Research, Communist and Post-Communist Studies, and the Journal of Democracy. During his fellowship, Dr. Jasiewicz is writing a book-length manuscript on the role of religion as both a facilitator of and a potential obstacle to the development of civil society and pluralist democracy in Poland.Mr. John Oliver Kollie (Liberia) “The Role of the Media in Fostering Peace and Good Governance in Liberia” October 2006-February 2007Mr. John Kollie is a senior producer with the Search for Common Ground in Liberia and Liberian correspondent for the English-language service of Radio France. The producer of two radio shows, “One Step Beyond” and “Policy Issues,” Mr. Kollie works to create space for Liberians of diverse backgrounds to discuss critical issues relating to the future of their country. He won the Press Union of Liberia’s “Investigative Reporter of the Year Award” in 2000 and its “Producer of the Year Award” in 2005. An activist for reconciliatory democracy, Mr. Kollie reported extensively on the misrule of Charles Taylor, an act that cost him his job at a Liberian television station. During his fellowship, he is researching the role of the media in promoting peace and good governance in post-conflict settings and writing a paper documenting his findings.Mr. Ilko Kucheriv (Ukraine) “The Next Step for a Democratic Ukraine: Embracing Euro-Atlantic Values” October 2006-February 2007Mr. Ilko Kucheriv is founder and director of the Kiev-based Democratic Initiatives Foundation, a leading think tank that focuses on deepening democracy in Ukraine. Since its founding in 1992, Mr. Kucheriv and his institution have engaged in research and debates concerning public attitudes to political, social and economic issues. They have commissioned exit polls for major Ukrainian elections, including the 2004 presidential elections, in which massive electoral fraud led to the Orange Revolution. Widely recognized as one of Ukraine’s most prominent nongovernmental activists, Mr. Kucheriv has been active in Ukrainian civil society for over twenty-five years. During his fellowship, he is developing a communications campaign aimed at introducing Ukrainian citizens to the Euro-Atlantic movement and at helping them better understand and embrace Euro-Atlantic values.Ms. Olga Nicolenco (Moldova) “Promoting Women’s Involvement in Moldova’s Local Public Administration” October 2006-February 2007Ms. Olga Nicolenco is head of the Chisinau chapter and permanent bureau member of the center-right Social-Liberal Party (SLP), one of Moldova’s most forward-thinking, democratically minded political parties. A staunch proponent of democratic freedoms and social equality, particularly vis-à-vis women’s participation in politics, she has been instrumental in the establishment of the SLP’s women’s caucus and in an educational campaign to deliver children’s books to schools and kindergartens in the breakaway Transnistria region of Moldova. As a leading party trainer and party activist, she has participated in several television and radio shows and has published numerous newspaper articles on democracy and human rights. In November 2005, she became her party’s candidate to run for mayor of Chisinau, the only woman on the ballot. During her fellowship, Ms. Nicolenco is developing strategies to increase women’s involvement in local public administration in Moldova.Mr. Le Quoc Quan (Vietnam) “Promoting Democracy in Vietnam: The Role of Civil Society” October 2006-February 2007A lawyer by training, Mr. Le Quoc Quan has worked for the past seven years as a local governance consultant to the World Bank, the Asian Development Bank, UNDP, and the Swedish International Development Agency. An active participant in Vietnam’s struggle for democracy, he has been vocal in his defense of religious freedom and political pluralism, both as a law student and legal advocate, and in his writings for the BBC and several Vietnamese newspapers. He is founder of Vietnam Solutions, a firm that provides consulting services on local governance, poverty reduction, and grassroots democracy for development projects in Vietnam. During his fellowship, Mr. Quan is examining the role of civil society in countries that have made a successful democratic transition. He plans to write an article on how civil society can contribute to democracy in Vietnam.Mr. Jared Genser (U.S.) “The Fifth Freedom: Inspiring Stories of Human Rights Defenders” Visiting Fellow (nonresidential), October 2006-July 2007Mr. Jared Genser is an internationally recognized human rights lawyer currently working as an associate with the law firm DLA Piper LLP. He is the founding president of Freedom Now, an NGO whose mission is to improve respect for human rights by securing the release of prisoners of conscience through focused legal, political, and public-relations advocacy efforts. During his fellowship, Jared plans to work on a book entitled The Fifth Freedom: Inspiring Stories of Human Rights Defenders, a narrative nonfiction account of the real-life stories of people who have sacrificed their freedom to promote democracy and human rights around the world. He has served as pro bono counsel for the individuals to be featured in his book, having assisted in securing their releases from prison.  The National Endowment for Democracy is pleased to announce its Spring 2018...The Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellows Program hosts...Mr. Hikmet Hadjy-zadeh is co-founder and president...Andrew H. Card Jr., former White House chief of staff...Brianna Hiser currently works as a Program and Development...Using Technology to Promote Good Governance and Economic Transparency in West...
#Journal of Democracy Book Launch: Electoral Systems And Democracy, What Have We Learned?#October 1, 2006#Leading scholars and election experts will mark the publication of the latest Journal of Democracy book, Electoral Systems and Democracy at a panel discussion on October 25, 2006 at 5:00 p.m. organized by the International Forum for Democratic Studies at the National Endowment for Democracy in Washington, DC.As the number of democracies has increased around the world, a heated debate has emerged among experts about which system best promotes the consolidation of democracy. Is proportional representation, a majoritarian system, a mixture of the two, or some other system the best for new democracies? Five of the contributors to this new volume, published by Johns Hopkins University Press, will discuss the lessons learned from recent experiments with diverse electoral systems. Panelists include Donald Horowitz, Andrew Reynolds, Richard Soudriette, and the book’s editors Larry Diamond, and Marc F. Plattner.Larry Diamond is coeditor of the Journal of Democracy and senior fellow at the Hoover Institution. From January to April 2004, he served as senior advisor to the Coalition Provisional Authority in Baghdad.Donald Horowitz is James B. Duke Professor of Law and Political Science at Duke University and author, most recently, of The Deadly Ethnic Riot (2001).Marc F. Plattner (moderator) is coeditor of the Journal of Democracy, codirector of the International Forum for Democratic Studies, and vice-president at the National Endowment for Democracy.Andrew Reynolds is associate professor of political science at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. He has consulted on issues of electoral and constitutional design for a wide array of countries.Richard Soudriette has been president of IFES (established as the International Foundation for Election Systems) since 1988.He is currently coauthoring a book on the importance of election management in advancing democracy.Founded in 1990, the Journal of Democracy is an influential quarterly journal which focuses on analyzing democratic regimes and movements around the world. The Journal is a branch of the International Forum for Democratic Studies at the National Endowment for Democracy, and is published by The Johns Hopkins University Press. Larry Diamond and Marc F. Plattner are its editors. Electoral Systems and Democracy is the nineteenth book in the Journal of Democracy series.What: Panel Discussion: Electoral Systems and Democracy, what have we learned? When: Wednesday, October 25, 2006 5:00 – 6:30 p.m. Where: National Endowment for Democracy, 1025 F Street, NW Suite 800, Washington, DC 20004 Who: Larry Diamond, Donald Horowitz, Marc F. Plattner, Andrew Reynolds, Richard Soudriette Media Registration: jane@ned.orgIn 2018, a peaceful protest movement brought down Armenia’s...Read the Challenge of Resurgent Authoritarianism: Can...The Journal of Democracy October issue features essays...Twentieth Anniversary Celebration - Journal of DemocracyDemocracy's...A number of Latin American countries are in the midst of turmoil. Brazil has...
#NED to Honor African Activists with 2006 Democracy Award#June 8, 2006#Four African democracy activists from Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), Sierra Leone, Sudan and Zimbabwe have been chosen to receive the 2006 Democracy Award of the National Endowment for Democracy (NED), which will be presented on Tuesday, June 27 at an event in the U.S. Congress. The four honorees are leaders of civil society organizations that are responsible for important advances in the fields of human rights, women’s rights, government transparency, independent media and free and fair elections.“Africa has been witness to more protracted conflicts than any region of the world,” said NED Chairman Vin Weber. “The individuals NED honors this year have demonstrated enormous personal courage and optimism, facing down brutal regimes and working in some of the most harrowing circumstances imaginable. If democracy continues to advance in Africa, it will be due to the dedication of activists like these.”The four recipients of the 2006 Democracy Award are:The Democracy Award presentation and reception will be preceded by a roundtable discussion addressing the topic “Africa’s Democratic Prospect.” Panelists will include the four honorees, as well as several regional experts and members of Congress.The National Endowment for Democracy is a private, nonprofit, bipartisan grant-making organization created in 1983 to strengthen democratic institutions around the world. It is active in more than 90 countries, supporting grassroots, democratic initiatives. More information about NED and the Democracy Award can be found at www.ned.org.What: 2006 Democracy Award of National Endowment for Democracy When: June 27, 2006 3:30 – 5:30 Roundtable Discussion, 5:30 – 7:30 Reception and Award presentation Where: 345 Cannon House Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 Contact: Jane Riley Jacobsen (202) 293-9072 or jane@ned.org. NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR DEMOCRACY 2006 DEMOCRACY AWARD HONOREESZAINAB HAWA BANGURA – Sierra Leone Zainab Bangura, a seasoned activist for good governance, human rights, and accountability in her native Sierra Leone, was recently chosen to serve as Chief Civil Affairs Officer to the UN Mission in Liberia. In 1995, she founded the Women Organized for a Morally Enlightened Nation (W.O.M.E.N), Sierra Leone’s first non-partisan women’s political rights organization, which played a vital role in the campaign against the military junta, the 1996 elections and peace accord. In 1996, she co-founded the Campaign for Good Governance, Sierra Leone’s largest indigenous NGO, and in 2001, founded the National Accountability Group to foster greater transparency in public affairs and curb corruption. In 2002, Ms. Bangura co-founded the Movement for Progress, a political party promoting good governance and the empowerment of women, youth, and the disabled in Sierra Leone. Nominated as the party’s chairperson, Ms. Bangura ran as the only female candidate in Sierra Leone’s May 2002 presidential elections. A former Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellow at NED, Ms. Bangura serves as a member of the Steering Committee of the World Movement for Democracy.ALFRED TABAN – Sudan Alfred Taban has served as the publisher and chairman of the board of directors of the Khartoum Monitor, Sudan’s only independent English-language daily newspaper, since it began publication in September 2000. The Monitor has been repeatedly closed and harassed by the authorities, and Mr. Taban has demonstrated extraordinary personal courage in persevering despite detention, threats, and financial hardship. In 2005, Mr. Taban received the Speaker Abbot Award from the House of Commons’ Parliamentary Press Gallery for exposing the scale of the killing in Sudan.IMMACULÉE BIRHAHEKA – Democratic Republic of the Congo Immaculée Birhaheka is the co-founder and president of the organization Promotion and Support of Women’s Initiatives (PAIF), created in the Democratic Republic of the Congo in 1995, and is one of the Congo’s leading human rights activists. In a country in which the basic infrastructure of a civil society – government, police, and hospitals – have all been either destroyed or weakened past all recognition, Ms. Birhaheka has effectively built an organization dedicated to protecting and promoting women’s rights. She is able to visit political prisoners in military or paramilitary encampments and successfully negotiate for the release of the prisoners or improvements in the conditions of their detention, because of her reputation as a balanced but uncompromising critic of all perpetrators of injustice in her homeland. Ms. Birhaheka has been honored for her human rights work by the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights and the European Community.DR. REGINALD MATCHABA-HOVE Reginald Matchaba-Hove is the one of the leading human rights activists in Zimbabwe and Southern Africa. His human rights career has focused on empowering Zimbabweans to protect fundamental civil rights, ensuring free, fair, and transparent democratic processes, and facilitating the provision of basic social services. He currently serves as the chairman of the Zimbabwe Election Support Network (ZESN) and the Open Society Initiative for Southern Africa (OSISA). Prior to 1999, he was the chairman of Zimbabwe Human Rights Association (ZimRights). Dr. Matchaba-Hove, who has a private medical practice, is on the Faculty of Medicine at the University of Zimbabwe.Tribute to Glanis Changachirere at the 2013 Democracy AwardIn her electrifying...Beyond the Elections in ZimbabweSponsored by the...Carl Gershman delivers the annual John B. Hurford Memorial...The National Endowment for Democracy is pleased to...The Endowment honored three outstanding young people...On June 27, the National Endowment for Democracy presented its annual Democracy...
#New Report: The Backlash Against Democracy Assistance NED to Release Report in Testimony Before Senate Foreign Relations Committee#June 8, 2006#The National Endowment for Democracy (NED) is issuing a comprehensive new study examining the efforts of foreign governments to impede U.S. programs for democracy assistance. The report was prepared at the request of U.S. Senator Richard Lugar (R-IN), Chairman of the U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee, who served on the NED Board of Directors for nine years. NED President Carl Gershman will present the report tomorrow, when he is scheduled to testify before the Committee at 9:30 a.m.The 52-page report, which draws upon the experiences of NED’s grantees, including its four affiliated institutes, as well as the research of the International Center for Not for Profit Law (www.icnl.org), asserts that government efforts to constrain democracy assistance have recently intensified and now seriously impede democracy assistance in a number of states. This backlash is particularly pronounced in the former Soviet states of Eurasia, as well as in China, Venezuela, Egypt and Zimbabwe. Representatives of democracy assistance NGOs have been harassed, offices closed and staff expelled. Even more vulnerable are local grantees and project partners who have been threatened, assaulted, prosecuted, and imprisoned. Other government tactics include funding for anti-democratic forces, and the creation of officially-sanctioned NGOs to frustrate genuine democratization.Despite these developments, the report documents that the demand for democratic assistance is greater than ever, and it emphasizes that there is a long history of successful democracy assistance, even in very challenging circumstances. The report concludes with a number of concrete recommendations for Congressional action to counter the new backlash.The full report can be found on the NED website at www.ned.org.NED is a private, nonprofit, grant-making organization created in 1983 to strengthen democratic institutions around the world. It is active in more than 90 countries, supporting grassroots, democratic initiatives. More information about NED can be found at www.ned.org.This is an important occasion to bring together the community of people in Congress,...On Thursday, September 11, at 11:00 AM, the National...2001 Democracy Service MedalPresented to:On September 18, 2007, the National Endowment for Democracy...Democracy Research News is the electronic newsletter of the Network of Democracy...
#Francis Fukuyama to speak on Identity, Immigration and Liberal Democracy Second Annual Lipset Lecture on Democracy in the World November 2, 2005#October 8, 2005#On Wednesday, November 2, 2005, at 6:00 p.m. the National Endowment for Democracy (NED) and the Embassy of Canada will host the second annual Seymour Martin Lipset Lecture on Democracy in the World. The lecture, which will be held at the Canadian Embassy in Washington, DC, will be delivered by Dr. Francis Fukuyama on the topic Identity, Immigration, and Liberal Democracy. An earlier version of the lecture was presented on October 19 at the Munk Centre for International Studies of the University of Toronto, which is a cosponsor of the annual Lipset Lecture.In his talk, Dr. Fukuyama will explore the challenges faced by the liberal democracies of Western Europe, Canada, and the United States in integrating Muslim immigrants. In particular, he will seek to explain why the model of multiculturalism that originated in Canada and has been reasonably successful there is increasingly regarded as a failure in countries like the Netherlands and the United Kingdom.The Lipset lecture is named for one of the great scholars of democracy and public intellectuals of the twentieth century. “Marty Lipset’s scholarship on themes like the conditions for democracy, political parties, voting behavior and public opinion constitutes one of the most prolific and insightful bodies of work on democracy ever produced by a single author,” said NED President Carl Gershman. Lipset has also been one of the most important comparative analysts of the two great democracies of North America, and a strong advocate for US-Canadian cooperation. The joint US-Canadian sponsorship of the Lipset Lecture provides an opportunity for influential audiences in both countries to hear and discuss a major intellectual statement on democracy each year and serves as a catalyst for further cooperation between Canada and the United States in the promotion of democracy and democratic ideas around the world.Francis Fukuyama is the Bernard L. Schwartz Professor of International Political Economy at the Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced International Studies of Johns Hopkins University. He has written widely on issues relating to questions concerning political and economic development. His best selling book, The End of History and the Last Man, (Free Press,1992) has appeared in over twenty foreign editions. His most recent book is State-Building: Governance and World Order in the 21st Century, published by Cornell University Press in the spring of 2004. America at the Crossroads: Democracy, Power, and the Neoconservative Legacy will be published by Yale University Press in the spring of 2006. Fukuyama serves on the Board of Directors of the National Endowment for Democracy.For more information on the National Endowment for Democracy, please visit www.ned.org. This event is open to the media. What: Second Annual Seymour Martin Lipset Lecture on Democracy in the World Where: Embassy of Canada, 501 Pennsylvania Ave., NW When: Wednesday, November 2, 2005 6:00 p.m. – 7:00 p.m. Cameras preset by 3:30 p.m. Contact: Jane Jacobsen (202) 293-9072;jane@ned.org
#President Bush Will Speak to the National Endowment for Democracy#October 1, 2005#President of the United States George W. Bush will be the keynote speaker at an event sponsored by the National Endowment for Democracy (NED) on Thursday, October 6 at 9:45 a.m. in Amphitheater of the Ronald Reagan Building and International Trade Center in Washington, D.C. The speech was originally scheduled for September 12 to commemorate the 4th anniversary of the attacks of September 11, 2001, and was postponed due to Hurricane Katrina.“The attacks of September 11, 2001 forever changed so many things — and the work of the Endowment is no exception,” said NED Chairman and former US Representative Vin Weber. “President Bush has made the promotion of democracy in the Middle East and the world at large a centerpiece of the war on terror, giving NED’s mission an increased urgency. We are eager to hear what the President has to say about this important work.”Two members of NED’s Board of Directors, former Democratic Leader Richard Gephardt and SEC Chairman Christopher Cox, will make brief remarks prior to President Bush’s address.Founded in 1983, NED is a bipartisan not-for-profit foundation that supports the advance of democracy abroad through grants to nongovernmental organizations, and to its four affiliated core institutes, the American Center for International Labor Solidarity (ACILS), the Center for International Private Enterprise (CIPE), the International Republican Institute (IRI), and the National Democratic Institute for International Affairs (NDI), who are also cosponsors of the Thursday event. NED receives an annual appropriation from the US Congress and is governed by an independent board of directors that includes prominent members of Congress as well as major figures in the fields of international affairs, business, and politics.NED, through its grant-making program, supports the strengthening of political parties, free market reforms, worker rights, civic education, independent media, the rule of law, good governance and the other essential elements of democracy in over 80 countries. More information about NED and its work can be found at the NED Web site: www.ned.org.The Ronald Reagan Building and International Trade Center is located at 1300 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW, Washington, DC. Media wishing to cover the event must present national media accreditation and photo identification. Media preset will take place between 5:00 – 6:00 a.m. Credentialing will begin at 9:00 a.m. and media must be in place by 9:45 a.m.For his life-long service to America and to the cause of freedom and democracy...U.S. Representative Mark Kirk (R-IL), Former Clinton...Vin Weber's remarks at the presentation of NED's Democracy...Former Secretary of State Madeleine Albright, Senator...The National Endowment for Democracy (NED) will honor...On Friday, January 16th, the board of directors of the National Endowment for...
#NED Mourns the Loss of Nigerian Activist Chima Ubani#September 23, 2005#It is with profound sadness that the National Endowment for Democracy (NED) mourns the tragic death of one of Nigeria’s leading democratic activists, Chima Ubani. The Nigeria Liberty Forum reported on September 21 that Mr. Ubani, executive director of Nigeria’s foremost human rights organization and long-time NED grantee, the Civil Liberties Organization (CLO), was killed in a terrible car accident on his way from a protest rally organized by the Nigeria Labor Congress in Yola, Adamawa State. He was 42 and is survived by his wife and four children.“This is a devastating loss,” said NED Director for Africa Dave Peterson, who has known and worked with Ubani for 15 years. “Chima was among Africa’s leading democratic activists, an intellectual and political strategist with an unwavering commitment to freedom and justice, not only for Nigeria, but for all mankind.”Ubani began his activism as a student at the University of Nigeria, Nsukka, where he was student union president from 1987-1988, and was expelled for leading protests against the Babangida government. He later played a key role in several leading democracy and human rights organizations, including the Campaign for Democracy, the Democratic Alternative and the United Action for Democracy party. Despite repeated harassment, arrests, even torture, Chima Ubani remained an unflagging campaigner for freedom and human rights, an inspiration to the entire democracy movement that now grieves his loss.A memorial fund for Chima has been established, and anyone interested in contributing can contact Dave Peterson at the Endowment for more information. The Endowment extends its sincerest condolences to the family, friends and colleagues of Chima Ubani.
#2005 NED DEMOCRACY AWARD PROGRAM TRIBUTE#July 13, 2005#For more than two decades following the Soviet invasion in 1979, Afghanistan experienced an almost indescribable national tragedy – first the war against the Soviet invader that left the country in ruins, its economy shattered and millions of its people maimed by landmines or driven into exile; then the devastating civil war in which tens of thousands died and whole communities were reduced to rubble; and finally, the rule of the Taliban, which subjected the entire population to a harsh theocratic dictatorship and turned the country into a launching ground for international terrorism.  The liberation of Afghanistan in the aftermath of the September 11 terrorist attacks upon the United States has given the Afghan people the opportunity for national rebirth. They have seized this opportunity by adopting a new constitution and voting in overwhelming numbers in last October’s historic presidential election, in defiance of terrorist threats to their safety. But they still face the awesome challenges of rebuilding the country’s infrastructure, reviving its economy, unifying the population around a common national vision, and building stable democratic institutions.  In meeting these challenges, Afghans need and deserve the sustained support of the United States and other democracies. But the decisive contribution to Afghanistan’s rebirth must come from the people themselves, working through organizations of civil society devoted to the education and empowerment of all Afghans, including women and youth. The NED is proud to present its 2005 Democracy Award to the leaders of three such organizations:Working with countless other Afghans committed to building a democratic and tolerant society, these three individuals have demonstrated unusual courage, determination and vision. For their service to the democratic rebirth of Afghanistan, the National Endowment for Democracy is honored to present its 2005 Democracy Award to Sakena Yacoobi, Mohammad Nasib and Sarwar Hussaini.  The Democracy Award is given annually by the National Endowment for Democracy’s Board of Directors to recognize the courageous and creative work of individuals and organizations that has advanced the cause of human rights and democracy around the world.Accepting the Medal, Rep. Wolf focused on the courage of Chinese activists like...Premio Anual a la Democracia 2009La Fundación...On Thursday, May 14, the National Endowment for Democracy...
#NED to Honor Afghan Activists with 2005 Democracy Award; Senators Clinton, Sarbanes, & Under Secretary Dobriansky to Speak#June 8, 2005#Three democratic activists from Afghanistan will receive the 2005 Democracy Award of the National Endowment for Democracy (NED), which on July 13 at an event in the U.S. Congress (note room change – this event will be held in Dirksen Auditorium SD G50). The three honorees are leaders of civil society organizations who have distinguished themselves in educating average citizens and local leaders about the basic values and principles of democracy, the rights of women and ethnic minorities, strategies for peace-building and conflict resolution and the importance of broad political participation. Under Secretary of State for Global Affairs Paula Dobriansky will make remarks at the award ceremony, and Senators Hillary Clinton (D-NY) and Paul Sarbanes (D-MD) will make award presentations.The three recipients of the 2005 Democracy Award are:The Democracy Award presentation and reception will be preceded by a roundtable discussion addressing the many challenges to Afghanistan’s continued democratic progress. Panelists will include the three honorees, as well as several regional experts and members of Congress.The National Endowment for Democracy is a private, nonprofit, bipartisan grant-making organization created in 1983 to strengthen democratic institutions around the world. It is active in more than 90 countries, supporting grassroots, democratic initiatives. More information about NED and the Democracy Award can be found at www.ned.org.What: 2005 Democracy Award of National Endowment for DemocracyWhen: July 13, 20053:30 – 5:30 Roundtable Discussion,5:30 – 7:30 Reception and Award presentationWhere: Dirksen Senate Building Auditorium (Room SD G50), Washington, DCContact: David Lowe (202) 293-9072 david@ned.org1998 Democracy Award honors heroes of human rights...2000 NED Democracy Award honors Heroes of Human Rights...The National Endowment for Democracy (NED) will present...2001 NED Democracy Award honors a Hero of Human Rights and Democracy in Mexico.
#Azar Nafisi to Speak on “Women, Culture, Human Rights: the case of Iran” at Second Lecture of New York Democracy Forum, April 20#April 8, 2005#Azar Nafisi, best-selling author of Reading Lolita in Teheran, will address the topic, “Women, Culture, Human Rights: The Case of Iran,” at the second lecture of the New York Democracy Forum (NYDF) to be held at the Kaye Playhouse of Hunter College on Wednesday, April 20, 2005 at 6:00 p.m.The New York Democracy Forum is a joint venture of the Foreign Policy Association (FPA) and the National Endowment for Democracy (NED), which aims to bring to New York audiences key figures in the global democracy movement who are leading the way in the advance of democratic values and institutions around the world. These individuals, whether they are activists, scholars, or decision makers, are influential democratic figures because of the impact of their work and the power of their ideas.“Azar Nafisi is uniquely qualified to speak to American audiences about advancing human rights and democracy,” said NED president Carl Gershman. “She understands the universal desire for freedom not only because she is a keen student of great literature, but also because she has taken great personal risks in pursuit of basic human rights.” Dr. Nafisi’s critically-acclaimed book is based upon her experience in Iran leading a discussion group of young women on forbidden works of Western literature prior to fleeing that country for the U.S. in 1997. As a professor of aesthetics, culture and literature at the Free Islamic University, Allameh Tabatabaii, and the University of Tehran-where she was eventually expelled for refusing to wear the mandatory Islamic veil–she earned national respect and international recognition for advocating on behalf of Iran’s intellectuals, youth, and especially young women.NYDF lectures will be held on a monthly basis at Hunter College, except for the summer. The first lecture was given by former Democratic Leader Richard Gephardt on the topic “Spreading Freedom: A Mission for the American People,” and can be viewed on the NED website (www.ned.org). Public intellectual Francis Fukuyama will address the topic, “Do we really know how to promote democracy?” on May 24.There are no two organizations better placed to link New York and Washington in this important undertaking. Since its founding in 1918, the New York-based Foreign Policy Association (www.fpa.org) has been at the forefront of efforts to educate the public about the critical issues that shape America’s involvement in world affairs. Through its World Affairs Councils, Great Decisions series, and publications, it serves as the leading public foreign policy forum for national and international leaders.NED is a private, nonprofit, grant-making organization created in 1983 to strengthen democratic institutions around the world. It is active in more than 90 countries, supporting grassroots, democratic initiatives. More information about NED can be found at www.ned.org.Date: Wednesday, April 20, 2005 Speaker: Azar Nafisi, best selling author of Reading Lolita in Teheran Time: Registration begins 5:30 pm, lecture from 6:00pm – 7:00pm Location: Kaye Play House, 695 Park Avenue (68th Street between Park and Lexington),, New York, NY  Admission: Free, advance registration required Register at www.fpa.orgEngendering the Movement for Democracy in IranFeaturingMs. Mahboubeh AbbasgholizadehReagan-Fascell...Richard Gephardt, longtime Democratic Leader of the...The Washington Post editorial board discussed the findings...To watch this video, you must have the latest version of Adobe Flash Player.
#Richard Gephardt to speak on “Spreading Freedom” at first lecture of New York Democracy Forum, March 22#March 8, 2005#Richard Gephardt, longtime Democratic Leader of the U.S. House of Representatives, will speak on “Spreading Freedom: A Mission for the American People” at the first lecture of the New York Democracy Forum (NYDF) to be held at the Kaye Playhouse of Hunter College on Tuesday, March 22, 2005 at 6:00 p.m.The New York Democracy Forum is a joint venture of the Foreign Policy Association (FPA) and the National Endowment for Democracy (NED), which aims to bring to New York audiences key figures in the global democracy movement who are leading the way in the advance of democratic values and institutions around the world. These individuals, whether they are activists, scholars, or decision makers, are influential democratic figures because of the impact of their work and the power of their ideas. Democracy is the fundamental struggle of our time, and therefore it is critical that the world’s leading commercial center engage with those who are part of that struggle.“Dick Gephardt has been an important voice in American politics for three decades,” said NED Chairman Vin Weber. “His commitment to the promotion of democracy abroad embodies the deep bipartisan support for democracy promotion that has existed for many years but has only recently been thrust into the spotlight of American foreign policy.” Gephardt currently serves on the bipartisan NED Board of Directors.NYDF lectures will be held on a monthly basis at Hunter College, except for the summer, and upcoming speakers include best selling author Azar Nafisi (April 20) speaking on the topic: “Women, Culture, Human Rights: The Case of Iran,” and public intellectual Francis Fukuyama (May 25), who will address the topic, “Do we really know how to promote democracy?” There are no two organizations better placed to link New York and Washington in this important undertaking. Since its founding in 1918, the New York-based Foreign Policy Association (www.fpa.org) has been at the forefront of efforts to educate the public about the critical issues that shape America’s involvement in world affairs. Through its World Affairs Councils, Great Decisions series, and publications, it serves as the leading public foreign policy forum for national and international leaders.NED is a private, nonprofit, grant-making organization created in 1983 to strengthen democratic institutions around the world. It is active in more than 90 countries, supporting grassroots, democratic initiatives. More information about NED can be found at www.ned.org.Date: March 22, 2005 Speaker: The Honorable Richard Gephardt, Former House Democratic Leader Time: Registration begins 5:30 pm, lecture from 6:00pm – 7:00pm Location: Kaye Play House, 695 Park Avenue (68th Street between Park and Lexington),, New York, NY  Admission: Free, advance registration required Register at www.fpa.orgU.S. Representative Mark Kirk (R-IL), Former Clinton Deputy Assistant for Domestic...President of the United States George W. Bush will...Vin Weber's remarks at the presentation of NED's Democracy...On Friday, January 16th, the board of directors of...The National Endowment for Democracy (NED) will honor...For his life-long service to America and to the cause of freedom and democracy...
#NED Mourns the Passing of Jan Nowak, Polish-American Patriot#January 22, 2005#The staff and directors of the National Endowment for Democracy join with the Polish people in mourning the passing of a great friend and one of Poland’s greatest patriots, Jan Nowak, who died Thursday, January 20 at the age of 91. NED extends its deepest sympathy to Nowak’s family and friends.Known to so many in Poland as a hero of the Polish underground during WWII and as the voice of Radio Free Europe’s Polish service for many years thereafter, Nowak went on to play a crucial role in helping to solidify America’s support for Polish democrats in the 1980s. This included acting as the principal adviser to NED on its support of Solidarity and other prodemocracy groups operating inside Poland whose courageous activities in many ways helped precipitate the end of the Cold War. “Nowak was an indispensable guide and supporter in the early days of our organization,” said NED President Carl Gershman. “the impact of Jan’s wisdom and his tenacious commitment to freedom for Poles was felt well beyond the borders of Poland itself.”On July 11, 2002, Nowak was awarded the NED Democracy Service Medal (which was first presented in 1999 to Lech Walesa and Lane Kirkland). At that ceremony, NED’s Director for Central Europe and Eurasia Nadia Diuk commented, “It’s hard to pay adequate tribute to a man whose actions have been so integral to the turbulent struggles of Poland and Eastern Europe in the past fifty years. Most of us are shaped by the environment around us, but there are the few rare individuals who shape the times in which we live, and Jan is just such a person.”NED is a private, nonprofit, grant-making organization created in 1983 to strengthen democratic institutions around the world. It is active in more than 90 countries, supporting grassroots, democratic initiatives. More information about NED can be found at www.ned.org.
#Larry Diamond’s Tribute to Seymour Martin Lipset on the occasion of the  First Annual Seymour Martin Lipset Democracy Lecture#December 6, 2004#By Larry DiamondDecember 6, 2004Tonight we honor one of the most important modern scholars of democracy, Seymour Martin Lipset. Over a career of more than half a century, Marty Lipset has been one of the most seminal and prolific analysts of the conditions, dynamics, values, politics, and prospects of democracy. His extraordinary output—some 25 books, a similar number of edited volumes, and hundreds of articles and essays—has spanned a range of themes too vast to summarize. His topics have included the origins of socialism, fascism, revolution, protest, prejudice, and extremism; class conflict, structure, and mobility; social cleavages, party systems, and voter alignments; public opinion and public confidence in institutions; and the social conditions of democracy, including economic development and political culture. He has explored each of these topics, and many more, in a lucid and strikingly accessible style, and with a range of works, some comparing across countries and some focusing on the United States.During the second half of the twentieth century, no one writing about democracy was more frequently cited by other scholars, more often translated into other languages, or more widely read and appreciated, not just by legions of professors and students, but by policy makers and civic activists who were struggling to implement democracy. In both substance and style, no scholar has more strongly influenced the Journal of Democracy.For over 50 years, Lipset has inspired, taught, and mentored several generations of leading political scientists and sociologists. Their diverse theoretical perspectives and political orientations testify to Marty’s open-mindedness, breadth, and toleration. He has lived his life as he has woven his theories, with a strong belief in reason, moderation, tolerance, pragmatism, and restraint as the bedrock values of democracy and of a decent society.This core philosophical conviction runs like a silver lining throughout his work and his life. It explains his constant search for equilibrium—between consensus and conflict, between ideological extremes, even between political parties in the United States. It explains his opposition to radicalism and revolution, yet his abiding concern for the need to attenuate inequality. It explains his celebration of the bourgeoisie and the middle class as the social foundations of democracy, and his intellectual drive to understand fascism of both the left and right. We see it in the political theorists who have most influenced him (Aristotle, Tocqueville, Max Weber, and Joseph Schumpeter) and in the American presidents he most admires (George Washington and Teddy Roosevelt). It is apparent in the remarkable way in which he has evinced, throughout his life, pride in the United States—“The First New Nation”—and yet has resisted all forms of chauvinism and ethnocentrism.Marty Lipset has become justly famous not only for his substantive contributions to the study of democracy but for his commitment to and promotion of comparative studies. No comparison of societies has fascinated and occupied him more than that between Canada and the United States. It is thus entirely fitting, and I know deeply satisfying to Marty, that we honor his lifelong commitment to the study of democracy with a lecture sponsored jointly by institutions representing these two great democracies.On Tuesday June 17, the National Endowment for Democracy will honor the heroic...2007 Democracy Service MedalPresented to: Mort Abramowitz, ...Remarks by Dr. Judy Shelton, Vice Chairman of NED. The Embassy of Canada and The National Endowment for...Kenneth Wollack Presentation of NDI's Harriman Award...Czech and Slovak representatives joined members of Congress, friends of NED,...
#First Annual Lipset Lecture on Democracy in the World, December 6, 2004 Joint US-Canadian Event Features Former President of Brazil Cardoso#December 1, 2004#On Monday, December 6, 2004, the National Endowment for Democracy (NED) and the Embassy of Canada will inaugurate an important new forum for discourse on democracy and its progress worldwide: the Seymour Martin Lipset Lecture on Democracy in the World. The lecture will be delivered by former President of Brazil Fernando Henrique Cardoso.The lecture, which will be held at the Canadian Embassy in Washington, DC, is named for one of the great scholars of democracy and public intellectuals of the twentieth century. “Marty Lipset’s scholarship on themes like the conditions for democracy, political parties, voting behavior and public opinion constitutes one of the most prolific and insightful bodies of work on democracy ever produced by a single author,” said NED President Carl Gershman.Lipset has also been one of the most important comparative analysts of the two great democracies of North America, and a strong advocate for US-Canadian cooperation. The joint US-Canadian sponsorship of the Lipset Lecture will provide an opportunity for influential audiences in both countries to hear and discuss a major intellectual statement on democracy each year and will serve as a catalyst for further cooperation between Canada and the United States in the promotion of democracy and democratic ideas around the world.“We are honoured to host the first annual Seymour Martin Lipset Lecture on Democracy in the World with remarks by former Brazilian President Fernando Henrique Cardoso,” said Canadian Ambassador to the U.S. Michael F. Kergin. “Dr. Lipset has had a distinguished academic career that has included major contributions to the study of Canadian society and Canada-U.S. relations. I am delighted that we can host the inaugural Lecture.”The lecture, which is also cosponsored with the Munk Centre for International Relations of the University of Toronto, will in future years will be delivered in both the US and Canada. It will be an intellectual platform for men and women who, like Lipset, have made important contributions to our thinking about key issues of democracy through their writings and other accomplishments.For more information on the National Endowment for Democracy, please visit www.ned.org. For more information on the Embassy of Canada, please visit www.canadianembassy.org.This event is open to the media. What:  First Annual Seymour Martin Lipset Lecture on Democracy in the World Where: Embassy of Canada, 501 Pennsylvania Ave., NW When: 5:30 p.m. – 6:45 p.m. Cameras preset by 3:30 p.m. Contact:  Jane Jacobsen (202) 293-9072; jane@ned.org
#International Coalition Expresses Concern for Democracy in Venezuela Havel, Albright, McCain among signatories of letter to Chavez#November 11, 2004#Former Czech President Vaclav Havel, former US Secretary of State Madeleine Albright and US Senator John McCain (R-AZ) are members of an international coalition of more than 70 democrats who sent a letter today to Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez expressing concern over the prosecution of civic activists in that country, calling it a “grave threat to democracy.” Other prominent signatories include former Nicaraguan President Violetta Chamorro, former Canadian Prime Minister Kim Campbell, former Prime Minister of Bulgaria Philip Dimitrov and Richard Goldstone, former Prosecutor of the International Criminal Tribunal for Former Yugoslavia.The letter, which is also addressed to the President of Venezuela’s Supreme Court and to the President of the National Assembly, specifically raises the case of Sumate, an NGO that received $31,150 in funding from the National Endowment for Democracy (NED) for civic education efforts related to Venezuela’s August 15 recall referendum.“It has come to our attention that the leaders of Sumate, a civic organization, face criminal prosecution for accepting international assistance to help educate citizens about their rights under Venezuela’s constitution,” reads the letter. “As democrats, we are appalled that this group is being singled out for punishment, a group whose deep commitment to democratic principles we share and applaud.” The letter also criticizes pending legislation that could criminalize receipt of international democracy assistance, in violation of Venezuelan commitments under the Inter-American Democratic Charter and the Warsaw Declaration of the Community of Democracies.“We are equally troubled that this prosecution appears to be just the beginning of a larger effort to criminalize the receipt of foreign funds by Venezuelan NGOs. We agree with the denunciations of this proposed “reform” of the penal code by human rights groups in Venezuela and elsewhere as a clear violation of international standards and practices.” NED President Carl Gershman, who returned Wednesday from a trip to Venezuela where he sought to improve government and public understanding of the Endowment and the objectives of NED’s grants to civil society groups said, “International democracy assistance in support of independent institutions of civil society is today an established feature of international relations.” During his trip, Gershman and NED representatives met with the President of Venezuela’s Supreme Court and the Attorney General Isaias Rodriguez, to whom they personally delivered the coalition’s letter. “We hope that by alerting the Venezuelan authorities to the seriousness of international concern on the issues of Sumate and international democracy assistance, they will refrain from taking actions that would be counterproductive for everyone involved,” said Gershman.NED is a private, nonprofit, grant-making organization created in 1983 to strengthen democratic institutions around the world. It is active in more than 80 countries, supporting grassroots democratic initiatives.Honorable Hugo Chavez, President Honorable Ivan Rincon, President of the Supreme Court Francisco Ameliach, President, National Assembly Dear Sirs: We write to you as democrats from around the world to express our solidarity with and deep concern for some fellow democrats in your country who face prosecution for exercising their civic rights.It has come to our attention that the leaders of Sumate, a civic organization, face criminal prosecution for accepting international assistance to help educate citizens about their rights under Venezuela’s constitution. As democrats, we are appalled that this group is being singled out for punishment, a group whose deep commitment to democratic principles we share and applaud.We are equally troubled that this prosecution appears to be just the beginning of a larger effort to criminalize the receipt of foreign funds by Venezuelan NGOs. We agree with the denunciations of this proposed “reform” of the penal code by human rights groups in Venezuela and elsewhere as a clear violation of international standards and practices.As you undoubtedly know, proceeding against nongovernmental organizations for receiving democratic assistance is a violation of both the Inter-American Democratic Charter and the Warsaw Declaration of the Community of Democracies, a document your government signed along with over 100 others four years ago.The charges against Sumate include its having received support from the National Endowment for Democracy (NED), a highly reputable and established nongovernmental foundation that promotes democracy in over 80 countries around the world. In fact, NED is but one of dozens of democracy foundations in North America, Europe, and Asia that receive public funding from their respective parliaments for the purpose of providing assistance to support democracy-related programs no different from the one conducted by Sumate.We urge you to reconsider the prosecution of the leadership of Sumate, as well as the proposal to criminalize democracy assistance from abroad. Both are clearly inconsistent with international democratic norms and constitute a grave threat to democracy.Morton Abramowitz, Senior Fellow, Century Foundation Mahnaz Afkhami, Founder and President, Women’s Learning Partnership Sergio Aguayo, Professor, El Colegio de Mexico Madeleine Albright, former US Secretary of State  Sergio Fernando Araya Alverado, President, Colegio Ciencias Politicas y Relaciones Internacionales de Costa Rica Zainah Anwar, Executive Director, Sisters in Islam, Malaysia Bernard Aronson, former Assistant Secretary of State for Latin America and the Caribbean (US) Genaro Arriagada, former Chilean Ambassador to the U.S. Timothy Garton Ash, Senior Research Fellow, St. Anthony’s College, Oxford and Director European Studies Center Ronald Asmus, German Marshall Fund Dr. Werner Bohler, Konrad-Adenauer Stiftung, Germany Robert M. Borden, CEO, Bumpers Corporation (Canada) Jack Buechner, President, US Association of Former Members of Congress  Emma Bonino, former European Union Commissioner and former member, European Parliament (Italy) William E. Brock, former US Senator and former Secretary of Labor Rt. Hon. Kim Campbell, former PM of Canada Frank Carlucci , former National Security Advisor (US) Violeta Chamorro, former President of Nicaragua Lorne Craner, President, International Republican Institute and former Assistant Secretary of State for Democracy, Human Rights and Labor Michael Danby, Member of Parliament, Australia Gianfranco Dell’Alba, Member of European Parliament, Italy Larry Diamond, Senior Fellow, Hoover Institution and co-editor, Journal of Democracy Philip Dimitrov, former Prime Minister, Bulgaria Jorge Dominguez, Professor, Harvard University Thomas R. Donahue, President Emeritus, AFL-CIO Nicholas Eberstadt, American Enterprise Institute  Peter Eigen, Chairman, Transparency International Jean Bethke Elshtain, Laura Spelman Rockefeller Professor of Social and Political Ethics, The University of Chicago Joao Carlos Espada, Director, Institute for Political Studies, Portuguese Catholic University Francis Fukuyama, Bernard L. Schwartz Professor of International Political Economy, Paul Nitze School of Advanced International Studies, Johns Hopkins University Richard Goldstone, former Prosecutor, International Criminal Tribunal for Former Yugoslavia Peter Hakim, President, Inter-American Dialogue Vaclav Havel, former President, Czech Republic  Francois Heisbourg, French Academic Bi-khim Hsiao, Member of Parliament, Taiwan Penn Kemble, Senior Fellow, Freedom House Harvey Klehr, Andrew W. Mellon Professor of Politics and History, Emory University Stephan Klingelhofer, President, International Center for Not-for-Profit Law Robert LaGamma, Council for a Community of Democracies Bolívar Lamounier, Augurium Consulting, Brazil Amb. Luis Lauredo, former U.S. Ambassador, Organization of American States Ulrich Laute, Konrad-Adenauer-Stiftung, Germany John McCain, US Senator Edward J. McElroy, President, American Federation of Teachers  Matthew McHugh, former Member of US Congress  Edward McMillan-Scott, Member of European Parliament (UK)  Sascha Müller-Kraenner, Heinrich Böll Stiftung Ghia Nodia, Chairman, Caucasian Institute for Peace, Democracy and Development, Republic of Georgia Janusz Onyszkiewicz, former Minister of Defense, Poland Marco Pannella, Member of European Parliament (Italy) Amb. Mark Palmer, Vice Chairman, Freedom House Robert A. Pastor, Director, Center for Democracy and Election Management, American University Theodore Piccone, Democracy Coalition Project (US) Surin Pitsuwan, Member of Parliament, Thailand James N. Purcell, former Director General, International Organization for Migration  Xiao Qiang, U.of California at Berkley, Past Executive Director, Human Rights in China John Richardson, Chair, Council for a Community of Democracies Markus Rosenberger, Konrad Adenauer Foundation, Perú Richard C. Rowson, Council for a Community of Democracies John Shattuck, CEO, John F. Kennedy Library Foundation and former Assistant Secretary of State for Democracy, Human Rights and Labor Michael Shifter, Vice President for Policy, Inter-American Dialogue Stephen Solarz, Former Member of US Congress Theodore C. Sorensen, Former Special Assistant to President John Fitzgerald Kennedy Strobe Talbott, former Deputy US Secretary of State  Amb. Terence Todman, former US Ambassador to Argentina, Costa Rica and Spain Elisabeth Ungar, Universidad de los Andes (Columbia) Arturo Valenzuela, Director, Center for Latin American Affairs, Georgetown University Gianni Vernetti, Member of Parliament, Italy Alexandr Vondra, former Deputy Foreign Minister, Czech Republic Gerhard Wahlers, Head of International Cooperation, Konrad Adenauer Foundation Reinhard Willig, Konrad Adenauer Stiftung-Costa Rica Jennifer Windsor, Executive Director, Freedom House Kenneth Wollack, President, National Democratic Institute for International Affairs Mortimer Zuckerman, Editor, U.S. News and World Report and New York Daily News Titles for Identification Purposes Only Excelentísimo Señor Hugo Chávez, Presidente de la República Bolivariana de Venezuela Excelentísimo Señor Iván Rincón, Presidente del Tribunal Supremo de Justicia Excelentísimo Señor Francisco Ameliach Presidente de la Asamblea Nacional Estimados Señores: Nos dirigimos a ustedes, como demócratas que representamos a diferentes pueblos del mundo, con el objeto de expresar nuestra solidaridad y preocupación por la situación a la cual están sometidos algunos de nuestros colegas demócratas venezolanos quienes, en estos momentos, son perseguidos por ejercer sus derechos civiles.Tenemos conocimiento sobre la situación que afecta a los representantes de Súmate, una organización civil que promueve y defiende los derechos políticos de los ciudadanos venezolanos, quienes están sometidos a un proceso judicial por recibir financiamiento internacional para diseñar y ejecutar un programa de educación ciudadana dirigido a dar a conocer los mecanismos de participación política y ciudadana, derechos establecidos en la Constitución. Como demócratas, nos sentimos en la obligación de denunciar este caso ya que el gobierno venezolano está persiguiendo a un grupo con el cual compartimos el mismo y profundo compromiso con la democracia.Estamos igualmente preocupados porque este caso parece ser el primer paso de un esfuerzo oficial por criminalizar la solicitud y uso de fondos internacionales por parte de Organizaciones No Gubernamentales venezolanas. Asimismo, compartimos las denuncias formuladas por grupos de derechos humanos en Venezuela y en otros países contra la reforma propuesta del Código Penal la cual pretende sancionar, con la máxima pena aplicable en Venezuela, el financiamiento internacional a ONGs.Enjuciar y castigar Organizaciones No Gubernamentales por recibir financiamiento dirigido a fortalecer la democracia es una violación de la Carta Democrática Interamericana y de la Declaración de la Comunidad de Democracias de Varsovia. Debemos recordar que el gobierno venezolano firmó, hace cuatro años, la Declaración de Varsovia junto a más de cien países.Por otra parte, la base de las acusaciones contra la Asociación Civil Súmate es el financiamiento otorgado por el National Endowment for Democracy (NED), la cual es una fundación privada muy respetada a nivel internacional por los programas que desarrolla en más de ochenta países para promover y defender la democracia. El NED es un ejemplo de las docenas de fundaciones que, en América del Norte, Europa y Asia, se dedican a promover la democracia. Estas fundaciones reciben financiamiento público de los parlamentos de sus países con el fin de apoyar programas dirigidos a fortalecer la democracia, como lo es el programa que está llevando a cabo Súmate.Como demócratas del mundo, rogamos a ustedes su intervención para reconsiderar tanto el proceso judicial contra los líderes de Súmate como el proyecto legislativo de reforma del Código Penal que busca criminalizar la recepción de asistencia democrática internacional. Estas actuaciones de los poderes judicial y legislativo venezolanos son inconsistentes con las normas democráticas internacionales y representan una grave amenaza contra la democracia.Atentamente, Los abajofirmantes Morton Abramowitz, Senior Fellow, Century Foundation Mahnaz Afkhami, Founder and President, Women’s Learning Partnership Sergio Aguayo, Professor, El Colegio de Mexico Madeleine Albright, former US Secretary of State  Sergio Fernando Araya Alverado, President, Colegio Ciencias Politicas y Relaciones Internacionales de Costa Rica Zainah Anwar, Executive Director, Sisters in Islam, Malaysia Bernard Aronson, former Assistant Secretary of State for Latin America and the Caribbean (US) Genaro Arriagada, former Chilean Ambassador to the U.S. Timothy Garton Ash, Senior Research Fellow, St. Anthony’s College, Oxford and Director European Studies Center Ronald Asmus, German Marshall Fund Dr. Werner Bohler, Konrad-Adenauer Stiftung, Germany Robert M. Borden, CEO, Bumpers Corporation (Canada) Jack Buechner, President, US Association of Former Members of Congress  Emma Bonino, former European Union Commissioner and former member, European Parliament (Italy) William E. Brock, former US Senator and former Secretary of Labor Rt. Hon. Kim Campbell, former PM of Canada Frank Carlucci , former National Security Advisor (US) Violeta Chamorro, former President of Nicaragua Lorne Craner, President, International Republican Institute and former Assistant Secretary of State for Democracy, Human Rights and Labor Michael Danby, Member of Parliament, Australia Gianfranco Dell’Alba, Member of European Parliament, Italy Larry Diamond, Senior Fellow, Hoover Institution and co-editor, Journal of Democracy Philip Dimitrov, former Prime Minister, Bulgaria Jorge Dominguez, Professor, Harvard University Thomas R. Donahue, President Emeritus, AFL-CIO Nicholas Eberstadt, American Enterprise Institute  Peter Eigen, Chairman, Transparency International Jean Bethke Elshtain, Laura Spelman Rockefeller Professor of Social and Political Ethics, The University of Chicago Joao Carlos Espada, Director, Institute for Political Studies, Portuguese Catholic University Francis Fukuyama, Bernard L. Schwartz Professor of International Political Economy, Paul Nitze School of Advanced International Studies, Johns Hopkins University Richard Goldstone, former Prosecutor, International Criminal Tribunal for Former Yugoslavia Peter Hakim, President, Inter-American Dialogue Vaclav Havel, former President, Czech Republic  Francois Heisbourg, French Academic Bi-khim Hsiao, Member of Parliament, Taiwan Penn Kemble, Senior Fellow, Freedom House Harvey Klehr, Andrew W. Mellon Professor of Politics and History, Emory University Stephan Klingelhofer, President, International Center for Not-for-Profit Law Robert LaGamma, Council for a Community of Democracies Bolívar Lamounier, Augurium Consulting, Brazil Amb. Luis Lauredo, former U.S. Ambassador, Organization of American States Ulrich Laute, Konrad-Adenauer-Stiftung, Germany John McCain, US Senator Edward J. McElroy, President, American Federation of Teachers  Matthew McHugh, former Member of US Congress  Edward McMillan-Scott, Member of European Parliament (UK)  Sascha Müller-Kraenner, Heinrich Böll Stiftung Ghia Nodia, Chairman, Caucasian Institute for Peace, Democracy and Development, Republic of Georgia Janusz Onyszkiewicz, former Minister of Defense, Poland Marco Pannella, Member of European Parliament (Italy) Amb. Mark Palmer, Vice Chairman, Freedom House Robert A. Pastor, Director, Center for Democracy and Election Management, American University Theodore Piccone, Democracy Coalition Project (US) Surin Pitsuwan, Member of Parliament, Thailand James N. Purcell, former Director General, International Organization for Migration  Xiao Qiang, U.of California at Berkley, Past Executive Director, Human Rights in China John Richardson, Chair, Council for a Community of Democracies Markus Rosenberger, Konrad Adenauer Foundation, Perú Richard C. Rowson, Council for a Community of Democracies John Shattuck, CEO, John F. Kennedy Library Foundation and former Assistant Secretary of State for Democracy, Human Rights and Labor Michael Shifter, Vice President for Policy, Inter-American Dialogue Stephen Solarz, Former Member of US Congress Theodore C. Sorensen, Former Special Assistant to President John Fitzgerald Kennedy Strobe Talbott, former Deputy US Secretary of State  Amb. Terence Todman, former US Ambassador to Argentina, Costa Rica and Spain Elisabeth Ungar, Universidad de los Andes (Colombia) Arturo Valenzuela, Director, Center for Latin American Affairs, Georgetown University Gianni Vernetti, Member of Parliament, Italy Alexandr Vondra, former Deputy Foreign Minister, Czech Republic Gerhard Wahlers, Head of International Cooperation, Konrad Adenauer Foundation Reinhard Willig, Konrad Adenauer Stiftung-Costa Rica Jennifer Windsor, Executive Director, Freedom House Kenneth Wollack, President, National Democratic Institute for International Affairs Mortimer Zuckerman, Editor, U.S. News and World Report and New York Daily News Nota: Los titulos sirven inicamente para identifacar a las personsNED President Carl Gershman presents the Disturbing the Peace Award to a Courageous...Michael Coppedge is professor of political science...Former Secretary of State Madeleine Albright, Senator...The National Endowment for Democracy strongly condemns...Leaders of the US Congress from both parties and a former Prime Minister of...
#NED Announces 2004-2005 Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellows#October 8, 2004#The National Endowment for Democracy (NED) is pleased to announce the Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellows in residence at the Endowment in 2004-2005. Joining us this fall are leading democratic activists and scholars from Azerbaijan, Belarus, Chechnya, Kyrgyzstan, Malawi, Montenegro, Nigeria, and the United States. Scheduled to arrive in the spring of 2005 are additional fellows from Australia, Korea, South Africa, Tajikistan, and Turkey. The Reagan-Fascell Program aims to deepen the knowledge, enrich the skills, broaden the perspectives, and revive the energy and morale of some of the world’s most creative and courageous democratic practitioners and scholars. Fellows are in residence at International Forum for Democratic Studies (the Forum), NED’s research and publications arm, in Washington, D.C., which offers a collegial environment for fellows to conduct research and writing; to develop contacts and exchange ideas with counterparts in Washington’s policy, academic, media, and nongovernmental communities; and to build ties that contribute to the development of a global network of democratic activists and scholars.Through its outreach efforts, the Reagan-Fascell program seeks to connect its fellows with the media, policy, and academic communities in Washington, D.C. The program organizes an active calendar of public presentations by the fellows, and promotes contacts between fellows and experts in Congress, the State Department, and other government agencies, as well as at universities, think tanks, and media organizations.The Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellows program was established in 2001 by the U.S. Congress in honor of NED’s two principal founders, former president Ronald Reagan and the late congressman Dante Fascell, and is funded by an annual grant from the US Department of State.For media inquiries, please contact Jane Riley Jacobsen at jane@ned.org or at (202) 293-9072. For more information on fellowship programs at the National Endowment for Democracy, please visit www.ned.org.Bulgarian human rights defender Dimitrina Petrova will assess the transformative...Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellow George Sarpong examined...Activist Passy Mubalama examined how the current political...In his presentation, journalist and activist Mr. Rafael...The Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellows Program hosts...Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellow Agon Maliqi discussed how to bolster domestic...
#Biographies of Honorees, 2004 Democracy Award#June 9, 2004#Ludmila Mikhailovna AlekseevaLudmila Alekseeva was a founding member of the Moscow Helsinki Group and has served as president of the International Helsinki Foundation since 1998. She graduated from the history faculty of Moscow State University in 1950 and, following the death of Stalin in 1953 and the exposure of Beria’s crimes, turned down the opportunity to move into Komsomol work. From 1956 on, her apartment was a meeting place for Moscow intelligentsia and a center for the distribution of Samizadat. In the following years, she worked to offer material assistance to political prisoners and their families while writing extensively on human rights in the USSR. In 1976, she accepted the invitation of Yuri Orlov to join the ranks of the nascent Moscow Helsinki Group where she became the editor and archivist of the group’s documents until Orlov’s arrest, after which she was exiled to the United States. She returned to Russia in 1993. Since 1989, she has been a member of the restored Moscow Helsinki Group of which she was elected chairman in 1996. Mara Fyodorovna PolyakovaMara Polyakova is a leading lawyer in the field of human rights and the current director of the Independent Council of Legal Expertise. She is also a member of the Moscow Helsinki Group, the leader of the expert council in the office of the Human Rights Ombudsman of the Russian Federation, and a member of the Russian section of the International Commission of Lawyers. Between 1979 and 1997 she served as dean of the Institute of Higher Qualifications of the General Prosecutor’s Office of the Russian Federation. Since 1994 she has been a professor at the Russian Legal Academy of the Ministry of Justice. During the 1990’s, she also served staffs of State Duma Deputies Yuri Chernichenko, Galina Starovoitova, and Sergei Kovalev. She is the author of many textbooks and academic articles on legal subjects. Arseny Borisovich RoginskyArseny Roginsky is a co-founder of the Memorial Historical, Educational and Human Rights Society, member of its board since 1988, and the current Chairman of the Board of the Memorial International Society. He was born in 1946 and graduated from the School of Philology at the University of Tartu in Estonia. In the 1970’s he edited and compiled a samizdat collection of materials on the history of political repression in the USSR for publication in Paris. From 1981 until 1985 he was political prisoner in a Soviet camp, sentenced for his publication of historical, literary and political writing. He has been a member of the board of Memorial since its re-creation in 1988, as well as the editor of the historical almanac, Zvenia, and many other periodicals issued by Memorial. He has been the author of numerous publications on the history and statistics of repression and papers on the human rights situation in Russia. Alexey Kirillovich SimonovAlexey Simonov currently serves as president of the Glasnost Defense Foundation, working on the issues of freedom of speech and freedom of the press. Born in 1939, he completed Moscow State University in 1964. In 1970, he completed a graduate degree in cinematography and began working for the Ekran film collective. Between 1970 and 1991 he directed 20 musical and documentary films. From 1991 to 1995 he worked as a dean and professor at the Institute of Cinematography. Since 1991, he has been the chairman of the board and president of the Glasnost Defense Foundation. He is the author of many articles on issues relating to the freedom the press.Premio Anual a la Democracia 2009La Fundación Nacional para la Democracia...The Endowment honored three outstanding young people...This piece is adapted from a speech NED President Carl...Christopher Walker and Jessica Ludwig discuss how Russia...The International Forum for Democratic Studies asks four leading experts about...
#Schedule/Location Change, National Endowment for Democracy to Honor Russian Democracy Activists#June 1, 2004#The National Endowment for Democracy (NED) will present its Annual Democracy Award to the leaders of four of Russia’s most outstanding nongovernmental groups that are working to advance and preserve democratic reforms in that country. The time and format and location of the ceremony have been changed so they will not conflict with events surrounding the mourning of President Ronald Reagan. The Democracy Award presentation will now take place in conjunction with a roundtable discussion to be held Wednesday, June 9, 2004 in room 216 of the Hart Senate Building from 3:30 – 5:30 p.m.The ceremony and panel will be a fitting tribute to President Reagan, who 22 years ago today proposed the creation of an international democracy promotion institution, which became the NED, in his now famous speech at Westminster Palace, in which he also predicted the demise of Soviet communism. Reagan’s most famous speech calling for Soviet leader Gorbachev to tear down the Berlin wall was also made 17 years ago this week, on June 12, 1987. This year’s Democracy Award honorees, most of whom were Soviet dissidents, are now calling attention to threats to human rights, democracy and individual freedoms in today’s Russia.The recipients of the 2004 Democracy Award are:A roundtable discussion on, “Prospects for Democracy and Human Rights in Russia” will precede the award presentation beginning at 3:30 p.m.  The discussion will be moderated by Librarian of Congress James Billington, with presentations by Russian Human Rights Activist and widow of Andrei Sakharov, Elena Bonner and Russia expert Michael McFaul. Commentators at the roundtable include U.S. Senator John McCain (R. -AZ), Washington Post columnist Jackson Diehl, and Russia expert Stephen Sestanovich.Commenting on the choice to honor the Russian activists, NED President Carl Gershman said, “More than a decade after the fall of communism in the Soviet Union, Russia is at a crossroads. Either it can move forward toward democracy, economic prosperity, and the rule of law; or it can move backward toward state domination of society and the economy, restrictions on basic freedoms, corruption and autocracy. These groups are in the vanguard of those working to make sure that democracy and freedom are Russia’s future and they deserve our utmost support.”For more information contact Jane Riley Jacobsen at (202) 293-9072 or jane@ned.org."Russia's International Media Poisons Minds""The...The June 2019 edition of the Forum newsletter features...In a number of countries, counter-terrorism, blasphemy,..."Russia's Transition to Autocracy: The Implications for World Politics," is...
#NED Announces Spring 2004 Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellows#March 8, 2004#The National Endowment for Democracy (NED) is pleased to announce the Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellows in residence during spring and summer 2004. The new fellows include leading democratic activists and scholars from Bulgaria, Kyrgyz Republic, Mongolia, Oman, Pakistan, the Palestinian Territories, Romania, Singapore, Ukraine, and Uzbekistan.The Reagan-Fascell Program aims to deepen the knowledge, enrich the skills, broaden the perspectives, and revive the energy and morale of some of the world’s most creative and courageous democratic practitioners and scholars. Fellows are in residence at International Forum for Democratic Studies (the Forum), NED’s research and publications arm, in Washington, D.C., which offers a collegial environment for fellows to conduct research and writing; to develop contacts and exchange ideas with counterparts in Washington’s policy, academic, media, and nongovernmental communities; and to build ties that contribute to the development of a global network of democratic activists and scholars.Through its outreach efforts, the Reagan-Fascell program seeks to connect its fellows with the media, policy, and academic communities in Washington, D.C. The program organizes an active calendar of public presentations by the fellows, and promotes contacts between fellows and experts in Congress, the State Department, and other government agencies, as well as at universities, think tanks, and media organizations.The Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellows program was established in 2001 by the U.S. Congress in honor of NED’s two principal founders, former president Ronald Reagan and the late congressman Dante Fascell, and is funded by an annual grant from the US Department of State.For media inquiries, please contact Jane Riley Jacobsen at jane@ned.org or at (202) 293-9072. For more information on fellowship programs at the National Endowment for Democracy, please visit www.ned.org.Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellow George Sarpong examined the approaches to digital...The International Forum for Democratic Studies at The...Despite the abolition of untouchability and the enactment...Activist Passy Mubalama examined how the current political...Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellow Elsa Marie D’Silva discussed how storytelling...
#After the Bombings: My Visit to Turkey and Istanbul’s Jewish Community#December 27, 2003#Carl Gershman, President The National Endowment for DemocracyRockville, MarylandRemarks delivered by by Carl Gershman, President of the National Endowment for Democracy at B’nai Israel Congregation, Rockville, Maryland on December 27, 2003.Six weeks ago, on Shabbat, suicide terrorists with ties to Al Qaeda detonated truck bombs in front of two synagogues in Istanbul, killing 25 people and wounding hundreds, most of them Turkish Muslims who happened to be in the vicinity of the attacks. Earlier this month I visited one of these synagogues, Neve Shalom, located on a narrow street down the block from the famous Galata Tower, which looks out over the entire city of Istanbul.This was the second murderous attack on Neve Shalom. The first took place in 1986 when two foreign terrorists tied to Abu Nidal entered the temple firing machine guns and throwing hand grenades, killing 22 of the 30 worshipers present that Saturday morning. A large clock stands near the boarded entrance of Neve Shalom, its hands stopped forever at the time the attack occurred. Above it the name of each victim is carved into the wall.A bar mitzvah was taking place in Neve Shalom the morning of the recent attack, and the synagogue was filled with more than 300 people. Because of security measures taken after 1986, the victims now were relatively few – a woman and her granddaughter who were near the entrance, and two guards. But the damage to the building is considerable, and the magnificent stained-glass windows that surround the main sanctuary and adorn its commanding dome have been shattered. It will be many months before Neve Shalom will re-open for worship. But re-open it surely will. I am grateful to Rabbi Schnitzer for letting the congregation know where contributions can be sent for the reconstruction of Neve Shalom and the other damaged synagogue.The Jewish community of Turkey, some 25,000 people in all, was shaken by the recent attacks and is now more wary than ever. Yet it remains proud of its Turkish identity and of its unique place in Turkish culture and Jewish history. Two years ago the new Jewish Museum of Turkey was opened in a restored synagogue in downtown Istanbul. The only museum of its kind in the entire Muslim world, it recounts 700 years of Jewish life in Turkey, a country where Jews found refuge from persecution elsewhere, and produced such intellectual treasures as the Shulkhan Arukh, the standard legal code of Judaism, and Lecha Dodi, the liturgical poem with which Jews throughout the world welcome the Sabbath.The museum’s founder, Naim Guleryuz, tells the story that Columbus set sail for the New World in 1492 from the unknown seaport of Palos because the shipping lanes of Cadiz and Seville were clogged with boats carrying Sephardic Jews expelled from Spain to their refuge in Turkey, where they were welcomed by edict of Sultan Bayazid II. (The commemoration of the 500th anniversary of the arrival of the Jews expelled from Spain, like all important Jewish communal events in Turkey, was held in Neve Shalom and attended by Israeli President Haim Herzog.) Later on, Russian Jews fleeing pogroms and revolution also found refuge in Turkey, as did Jewish scientists from Nazi Germany and Austria, who were invited by Kemal Ataturk himself. During World War II Turkish diplomats in Europe helped save some 2,000 Jews, and Turkey also offered safe passage to Jews fleeing Nazism. While the Jews in neighboring Greece were annihilated by the Nazis, in Turkey they survived the war.All this, of course, is history. But what about today? Can the Jews find a life in Muslim Turkey at a time when anti-Zionism and Islamic radicalism have spread like a plague across much of the Middle East, even in parts of the non-Arab Muslim world, and Turkey has become a new front in the war on terrorism? The issue has been brought to a head in Turkey today not just by the recent bombings but by the victory in elections held late last year of a party that has its roots in a banned Islamist party, though it now explicitly rejects the Islamist label and has staked its future on bringing Turkey into the European Union.The Jewish community of Turkey does not differ from the larger society in being uncertain about the democratic commitment of the new Turkish government, which has introduced the most sweeping democratic reforms in Turkey’s history but has also eased restrictions on teaching Koranic courses in the schools. Prime Minister Tayyip Erdogan took the unprecedented step of visiting the Chief Rabbi the day after the bombings, a gesture that was lost on no one. But a journalist I met with in Ankara complained that the Prime Minister was slow to acknowledge that the terrorist acts had been carried out in the name of religion, adding that there was “such a thing as Coke Lite but not Islam Lite.”I had told this journalist that I my next meeting was the Minister of Justice Cemil Cicek, a leading moderate in the government, so he suggested that I ask the Minister the following question: Did he plan to apply the article in the criminal code prohibiting advocacy of hate crimes against the son of a suicide bomber who gave a widely publicized interview in which he welcomed the deaths of the Jews killed in the attacks – he said he regretted that Muslims had been killed — on the grounds that the Koran instructed Muslims to be against the Jews?I did pose the question, and the Minister’s response was unequivocal. Though he had only just returned from an international trip, he said that he had already ordered an investigation of the interview under the criminal code and that he would take action if the young man actually said what had been reported. He added that “for Turkey and for Islam,” it was necessary to fight those who instill hatred by misinforming young people about the teachings in the Koran. When I told him I was meeting with representatives of the Jewish community the following day in Istanbul, he said he had no objection to my informing them of his decision.So this is what I did the next day when I met with Chief Rabbi Izak Haleva. His response was nuanced but fundamentally hopeful. We must honor the party in power, he said, but we must also be careful. The Koran says that Muslims can’t have friends among Jews, so it would be foolish for Jews to expect to be loved. But times have changed. Whereas once religion was the main source of conflict, today there are many reasons for fighting that have nothing to do with religion. It’s incumbent upon all religions to find special points of agreement, starting with an agreement not to kill and building out from there.He then got to the news that I had brought him. What the Justice Minister told me was “a watershed,” if he really followed through on his pledge. It would deliver a strong message against anti-Semitism, not just to Turkey but to the entire world. He concluded by saying that one who starts to do a mitzvah [a meritorious act] has an obligation to continue it until it is finished.The next day, my last in Turkey, I told this story to Ishak Alaton, a leading businessman who is both Jewish and highly independent. His own take was to blame the journalist whose paper had blown up the story of the young Islamist in order to hurt the government, something that many people tied to the opposition and the military would like to do. He believed that the Prime Minister, the Justice Minister, and other officials in the new government had outgrown their Islamist past and were now the true agents for accomplishing the historic task of bringing democracy to Turkey and Turkey into Europe.In the end, this is my view, too. As we battle on against the scourge of Islamic terrorism, it is quite extraordinary to think that Turkey, a Muslim country allied with the United States and a friend of Israel, is being carried toward democracy and the West by a party that only recently broke with Islamism and is still not entirely trusted by the old Turkish establishment. If all this happens and Turkey becomes a real democracy and a member of the EU, it would be Al Qaeda’s worst nightmare. The important thing, as I heard time and again in Turkey, is to continue the process of reform and not to turn back. Like the mitzvah referred to by the Chief Rabbi, a good thing has been started that needs to be finished, and if it is, the Jews of Turkey will be more secure, and so will we all.Read remarks by NED President Carl Gershman at “North Korea: The Human Condition...Read Carl Gershman's keynote address delivered for...The National Endowment for Democracy strongly condemns...NED President Carl Gershman rejects the argument put...Carl Gershman reflects on the state of democracy in...Authors of the report, "Sharp Power": Rising Authoritarian Influence, discussed...
#OPENING REMARKS TO THE ICPNKR PARLIAMENTARY ROUNDTABLE ON THE NORTH KOREAN REFUGEE CRISIS#July 16, 2003#Members of the International Parliamentarians’ Coalition for North Korean Human Rights and Refugees and Members of the U.S. Congress discuss policy recommendations for managing the refugee crisis.Masaharu Nakagawa, Member of the House of Representatives of JapanI regret very much that I am not able to attend this meeting today. I would like to give a heartfelt compliment to every member of the NED and offer Mr. Benjamin Yoon and the other honorees my sincerest congratulations for receiving the 2003 Democracy Award. I am confident that every one of your activities contributes greatly to encourage humanitarian effort on behalf of the repressed people in North Korea.  I welcome the United States’ proposal of multilateral, rather than bilateral, negotiation to deal with North Korean nuclear and humanitarian issues. In Japan, the abductees and their families issue attracts the nation’s attention and has become the main agenda of negotiation between Japan and North Korea. On the other hand, more and more Japanese people are concerned with the human rights issues of 95,000 North Korea returnees from Japan and their Japanese spouses whose number amounts to 6,500. It is estimated that there are currently about thirty North Korean defectors in Japan who have escaped behind the scenes through China, Mongolia, Vietnam, and the Philippines. As public assistance for North Korean defectors becomes a widely acknowledged social issue, I welcome new support programs for defectors set up by a Korean organization in Japan. I have actively participated in the issue as one of the founders of the International Parliamentarians’ Coalition for North Korean Refugees and Human Rights that was established in Korea earlier this year. I would like to express my appreciation for the tremendous effort by Honorable Hang Wee Yea of South Korea and everyone who have taken part. It is a significant progress for the issue that we now can share the goals and action plans with parliamentarians of the surrounding countries.  I propose a concrete action plan that I would really like to realize with this coalition. That,   1. We urge relevant governments to observe the international standard (The Principle of Non-Refoulement stipulated in Article 33 of the 1951 Convention relating to the Status of Refugees) and not to deport back the North Korean defectors to North Korea.    2. We call on relevant governments to afford the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) a prompt, unhindered and safe access to the North Korean refugees and asylum-seekers and to afford the UNHCR personnel to have individual interviews with them so that an escapee who needs to receive the status as a refugee in the light of international law may not be dealt with as a mere illegal alien.    3. We urge relevant governments to help establish North Korean refugee camps in Mongolia, Russia, and China-North Korea border region, and facilitate South Korean, American, and Japanese governments and related international organizations to assist the fundraising and the management of such camps.    4. We draft and release a joint congressional resolution proposal and make every effort to adopt the resolution to rouse concern of people in relevant countries and the international community.   5. We establish an international scheme aiming support North Korean refugees and asylum-seekers for the perpetual resolution of the refugee problem in East Asia region.   Finally, I plan to dispatch a joint on-site fact-finding team to the northeastern region of the People’s Republic of China with officers of the UNHCR and plan to arrange a preliminary survey tour to Mongolia for establishing a refugee camp. At the same time, I have explored a political route to negotiate with the Chinese government to soften its current rigorous, non-humanitarian policy towards North Korean refugees.   Thank you for your kind attention and patience.Hwang, Woo Yea, Member of Korean National AssemblyDear Representative Royce and Esteemed Ladies and Gentlemen,   I cannot express enough how meaningful this gathering is, especially for North Korean refugees who risk their lives to find freedom. The inherent dignity of human beings is the most noble and universal of values, and as such should be the Constitutional cornerstone of every nation. In a very real sense, a nation and the principles on which it is built can be defined as little more than a system to secure human rights. Hence, a nation lacking either the willingness or capability to guarantee these basic human rights should not be considered a legitimate nation in the noblest sense of the word. And those nations where basic human dignities are regularly transgressed should and do face strong opposition from within its borders.   Furthermore, the progress of history has made it self-evident that individual nations must not arbitrarily choose when, how and to what degree they will secure human rights. All nations, linked by their respect for and commitment to human dignity, should be held to account for their human rights record and condemn, and if necessary restrain, those nations where human rights are not respected. With this in mind, it was truly historic that on April 16 of this year Parliamentarians from different countries reached upon a concerted course of action to address the human rights abuses in North Korea.   To avoid the starvation that threatens their lives, many North Koreans are leaving their hometowns, braving heavily patrolled borders to wander from place to place in the lands of adjacent neighbors, such as China. In the face of the oppressive North Korean regime, these brave people are expressing their determined will for their basic human rights.    Sadly, however, if these refugees are caught and repatriated, harsh punishments await them. Extensive jail terms, where prisoners are forced to endure backbreaking labor and regular beatings, are common for many repatriated North Koreans. Pregnant women are at times forced to abort their children. And for those with religious tendencies or those who espouse anything other than status quo political ideals, the penalties are even more extreme–execution and death from starvation and malnourishment are routine practices. It is a transgression of moral laws, therefore, for governments and their police to hunt down and forcefully repatriate these political, economic and social refugees.    Acting to protect the human rights of these North Korean refugees will not only save precious lives, but it will also advance the issue of human rights on the international stage. Furthermore, it contributes to the maintenance of peace and safety in Northeast Asia and enhances hopes of building a stable and peaceful relationship between the two Koreas.    I extend my utmost thanks and respects to all the parliamentarians who have committed their efforts to securing human rights. I would take this opportunity to thank the Senators and Representatives of the United States in particular for their continued regards and support for North Korean refugees. Although I am not able to join you at this time, please accept my warmest regards and those of the many Korean representatives who share the purpose of our cause.   May God bless you and your Congress.   Thank you very muchThe National Endowment for Democracy’s 2018 Democracy Award honors the civil...Join Daily NK for a presentation on the the North Korean...In November 2017, NED hosted a former high-ranking...One way or another, a transition in North Korea is...North Korean defector-turned-activist Ji Seong-ho received...Remarks by NED President Carl Gershman at the CSIS Conference, "North...
#Biographies of 2003 DEMOCRACY AWARD Honorees#July 16, 2003#An Hyuk, 35, was arrested after he voluntarily returned to North Korea from China and confessed his escape to the authorities. In January 1986 An Hyuk was accused of spying and detained in a secret detention center run by the State Security Protection Agency. For nearly two years he was imprisoned in the Yodok camp. He escaped from North Korea in 1992 and entered South Korea later that year. He has since written two books in Korean and Japanese that reveal the inhuman conditions in Yodok. He is currently carrying out underground activities to rescue North Korean refugees in China.Kang Cheol-hwan, 35, was nine years old when he was sent with his family to the Yodok prison camp following an accusation against his grandfather, a high-level government bureaucrat, of “high treason.” Kang and his family spent the following ten years in the gulag, where he grew up tortured by camp guards, working twelve hours a day of hard labor and going to “school” for two hours of daily political training. He documented this experience in the highly acclaimed memoir Aquariums of Pyongyang. Today he lives in Seoul, where he writes for the daily Chosun Ilbo.Soon Ok Lee, was supervisor of the North Korean state material distribution center prior to her arrest in 1986 on trumped up charges of embezzlement. Soon Ok Lee spent the next six years in the gulag under the most brutal conditions. Three years after her unexpected release in 1992, she escaped to the South with her son. In 1996 she published Eyes of the Tailless Animal: Prison Memoirs of a North Korean Woman. Today she conducts a personal campaign to expose and end the gulag.Benjamin Yoon, 73, is director of the Citizens’ Alliance for North Korean Human Rights, which he founded in 1996 “to help the forgotten victims in North Korea by shedding light on the violations of human rights” there. The first such private group established in South Korea, the Alliance has published detailed information about human rights abuses, sparked the creation of an international human rights campaign on North Korea, and created schools in the South to provide North Korean escapees with basic and civic education. Yoon is the former head of Amnesty International in South Korea and was awarded the Civic Merit Medal by former President Kim.
#North Korea’s Human Catastrophe#April 17, 2003#By Carl Gershman The Washington Post, Page A23The abandonment by North Korea of its demand for one-on-one negotiations with the United States is a welcome development. Pyongyang has understandably reconsidered the wisdom of its strategy of provoking the United States militarily in order to win economic aid and security guarantees. But while multilateral talks may follow, it would be a mistake if they were to focus exclusively on settling the nuclear issue. The security crisis can never be resolved in any lasting way without addressing the heart of the problem: the terrible crimes the North Korean regime is committing against its own people.It will obviously be difficult to negotiate an end to these crimes. But multilateral talks offer an unprecedented opportunity to place the issue of human rights in North Korea on the international agenda.They could establish a link between North Korea’s reckless external behavior and the ruthless character of its rule. This would start the process of ending Kim Jong Il’s reign of terror, which is the main obstacle to peace on the Korean peninsula and to the ultimate reunification of the two Koreas.The human catastrophe that until now has been a sideshow to the controversy over nuclear proliferation has three interlocking dimensions. The first is the famine that has been responsible for anywhere from 1 million to 3 million deaths since the mid-1990s. The famine is not the result of drought or agricultural failure, nor is it the result of the absence of feedback mechanisms, such as a free media, that might alert governments to food shortages. In North Korea the government is fully aware of the famine, so much so that it uses it deliberately as a weapon against those parts of the population it classifies as least loyal to the regime. In keeping with this policy, it has prohibited relief agencies from monitoring food deliveries to the most severely affected regions.The famine has caused desperate North Koreans to flee the country, thus producing a refugee crisis that is the second dimension of the human catastrophe from which the rest of the world has turned its gaze. Some 300,000 North Korean refugees are now hiding in China, fearful of being rounded up and forcibly repatriated. Because North Korea criminalizes the act of leaving without permission and subjects captured escapees to severe punishment, China is acting in violation of its treaty obligations under the 1951 Refugee Convention and the 1967 Additional Protocol, which prohibits a state from forcibly returning a refugee “to a territory where he or she fears persecution.” The Beijing office of the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees is complicit in this violation of international law, because it has refused to insist on its right of unimpeded access to the refugees, who are likely to be sent to a prison camp or even executed after they are returned.This raises the third dimension of the human catastrophe, which is the North Korean gulag. It is estimated that the system of political prisons and labor camps in North Korea holds more than 200,000 people, and that, given the harsh conditions in these camps, some 400,000 prisoners have perished in the past three decades. In keeping with North Korean founder Kim Il Sung’s dictate that class enemies “must be eliminated through three generations,” parents, children, grandchildren and other relatives of prisoners are also sent to the gulag; and forced abortion and infanticide are standard practice, as prisoners are considered subhuman and are not permitted to have children. North Korea, of course, denies the existence of such camps, but in December the Far Eastern Economic Review published satellite photos of a camp in Hoeryong County that holds 50,000 prisoners, along with interviews of escaped prison guards who described what happened in the different buildings, including those where prisoners were tortured and executed.The famine, refugees and gulag are not isolated problems but rather illustrative aspects of the most oppressive system in the world today. North Korea is a remnant of Stalinist totalitarianism at its worst, and its extortionate behavior has no purpose other than to perpetuate its existence.If there is to be some process of negotiation to end the latest security crisis, prudence and simple morality demand that any agreement include measures to protect the refugees and end the famine. A more ambitious agenda would also include a requirement that all parties — including North Korea — demonstrate respect for human rights. Such an agreement would be modeled on the Helsinki Final Act, which linked Western recognition of the post-World War II borders of Central Europe to a set of human rights principles. This was one of the main recommendations last month from a conference on North Korean human rights that was held, appropriately, in Prague.Few people in 1975 expected the countries of the Soviet bloc to honor the human rights provisions of the Helsinki accord. But the agreement set in motion a process that gave momentum to the movement for human rights and led eventually to the unraveling of communism. There is less reason to believe that North Korea would honor such an agreement, as it has gone through no post-Stalin thaw and lacks anything resembling a dissident movement.But that misses the point, which is the need to start a process. A Helsinki agreement for the Korean peninsula would end the silence on North Korean human rights abuses, increase international pressure on the regime and commit the signatories to a different vision for North Korea from what now exists. Combined with a firm policy of containment, it could offer a way to curb Pyongyang’s worst abuses, open North Korea to greater international scrutiny and break down the isolation of the North Korean people. These are feasible first steps that could lay the foundation for more far-reaching changes in the future.The writer is president of the National Endowment for Democracy.© 2003 The Washington Post CompanyNorth Korean Human Rights Advocacy: Making the Most of Scarce DataCo-sponsored...Read the welcome and introductions by Carl Gershman.Warsaw-based Polish Newspaper Gazeta Wyborcza sat down...Read the remarks given by NED President Carl Gershman...
#2002 NED Democracy Award honors Heroes of Human Rights and Democracy##At a Capitol Hill ceremony on July 9, 2002, First Lady Laura Bush presented NED’s Annual Democracy Award to four outstanding activists from the Muslim World. Joined by NED Chairman Vin Weber, Undersecretary of State for Global Affairs Paula Dobriansky, and Senators Joseph Biden and Bill Frist, Mrs. Bush paid tribute to the courageous work of these women to promote democracy, human rights and the growth of civil society in their respective countries. The 2002 winners are: Nadjet Bouda (Algeria), Mehrangiz Kar (Iran), Mariam Hussein Mohamed (Somalia), and Muborak Tashpulatova (Uzbekistan).Read remarks of the honoreesAdditional remarks at the award ceremony were given by Carl Gershman, President, NED.Islamic Voices of Reason, by Claudia Winkler, Weekly Standard, July 16.
#Enlightened post Cold War Initiative for Peace Building and Democracy: Enhancing the Role of the Parliament and the NGOs#November 13, 2002#Welcoming Remarks by Carl Gershman, President, November 13, 2002The National Endowment for DemocracyTokyo, JapanBefore I begin my formal remarks, I want to express my sympathy to Schu Sugawara, the person who played the main role in organizing this meeting and whose mother passed away just yesterday. The spirit of Schu’ s mother lives on in his idealism, his energy, his compassion for those in need, and in his devotion to democratic values. In her memory, I ask that we pause for a moment of silence.I want to congratulate the Committee to Aid Democracy for Peace Building, the Diet League to Aid Democracy for Peace Building, and the Yukio Ozaki Memorial Foundation, the three sponsors of this important conference on enhancing the role of the Japanese parliament and NGOs in promoting democracy. They have taken the lead in an initiative that has great importance for Japan and the cause of world peace.I want to pay special thanks to the U.S.-Japan Foundation for its support for this conference, and for being an effective catalyst in helping the United States and Japan find new ways to work together to advance the goals they share in common.I think it’s important and auspicious that Diet Members representing both the governing and opposition parties have joined together to support this conference. This demonstrates that democracy is a unifying idea, and that the objective of promoting democracy in Asia and other regions has the backing of all of Japan’s political parties.Since the end of the Cold War, the promotion of democracy and good governance has been widely recognized as one of the principal ways to build peace, promote development, and resolve conflicts within and between countries. Toward this end, most of the advanced democracies have established independent democracy foundations that enlist the talents and energies of political parties and non-governmental organizations. I’m gratified that the leaders of so many of these foundations have come such a long distance to be with us today. By establishing such a foundation, Japan can expand its role as a partner with other democracies in the defense of common values. As a bridge between Asia and the West, it can make a unique contribution to the strengthening of democratic culture and political stability throughout the world.I think it’s especially important that the foundation established in memory of Yukio Ozaki is sponsoring this conference. Yukio Ozaki is known in the United States for giving the cherry trees that blossom so beautifully in the spring and that surround the Tidal Basin near the Jefferson Memorial. But he was also one of the great democratic figures of the last century. I want to thank his daughter Yukika Sohma for her support of and participation in this conference, and for giving me a copy of her father’s autobiography, from which I have learned a great deal.The life of Yukio Ozaki contains important lessons that can guide us today. I would like to explain briefly three of these lessons.The first has to do with the importance of democratic culture. In the aftermath of the First World War, Ozaki-san fought to expand voting rights and opposed his own party when it watered down a suffrage bill he supported. He was expelled from his party and reluctantly came to the conclusion that before Japan could have an effective party system, it would be necessary to promote the political development of the Japanese people, meaning that the attitudes of the people towards politics and society as a whole, and their understanding of the responsibilities of democratic citizenship, would have to change. He became a partyless politician, a conscience to the government, and a voice for democratic principles.Following the Second World War, Ozaki saw his chance to fulfill his dream of educating the Japanese people about the philosophy and practice of democracy. In 1946, therefore, he wrote Kokumin Seiji Tokuhon, or “People’s Political Reader,” which was, in effect, a civic education manual for post-war Japan. In it, Ozaki drew on historical incidents, well-known problems, and his own experiences to explain the foundations of democratic constitutional government. Kokumin Seiji Tokuhon was described by the historian Jon Dawson Sucher as Yukio’s Ozaki’s “expression of faith in the Japanese people.” It was written to them and for them, explaining how past thinking had led to disaster and how looking at issues in the light of modern democratic experience could lead them to fulfill their personal hopes and national goals. This vision, which expressed the political beliefs Ozaki-san accumulated during his long life — he was 88 years old when he wrote this book — can still guide us today as we seek to give new strength to the democratic idea.The second lesson to be learned from Yukio Ozaki is the importance of democratic internationalism. Ozaki saw very early on that modern technology was creating a totally different world. Writing in 1933, he observed that the progress of civilization and new inventions had “reduced time and space” and had broken down barriers until “the world grew to resemble a human body in that an injury to one part of it caused suffering to the whole.” He was deeply troubled that people in every country were increasingly “looking at things from the narrow point of view of nationalism, and in so doing are sacrificing the greater interests of the world….If we continue in this way of thinking,” he warned prophetically, “we shall surely witness a second world war.”Japan, he said, faced a cross-roads – it could choose isolation or cooperation, nationalism or internationalism. He believed that Japan, by virtue of its economic and territorial circumstances, was utterly unsuited to isolation. It needed the free circulation of wealth and people and should, therefore, take advantage of “the progressive tendency of civilization” to become a pioneer for a policy of “Open Doors.” He believed that Japan, if inspired by “a noble and divine spirit,” could “lead the way along the road to Greater Justice,” and “by helping the weak and small nations” also “save herself.”It is almost 70 years since Yukio Ozaki wrote “Japan at the Crossroads,” in which these thoughts appear. As we try to deal with the awesome challenges of a world divided not only by wealth and culture, but also by hateful emotions and violent actions, his words have lost none of their relevance or force.The third lesson that we can learn from the life of Yukio Ozaki is that democracy cannot exist without democrats. His whole life was a model of democratic activism. It is democratic idealists like Yukio Ozaki who give democracy its spark of life. And it is democratic citizens who must take upon themselves the responsibility to give life and energy to everyday democratic processes. Democracy does not come about automatically. It is not the natural state of mankind. It requires hard work to build its structures, to renew its possibilities, and to defend its values.Broadening democratic culture; strengthening democratic internationalism; encouraging and inspiring democratic activism – these are three goals that can guide us today as we look for new and creative ways to address the challenges of the 21st century. I am confident that our deliberations will help Japan and all of us realize Yukio Ozaki’s vision of an open and democratic world order.____________________Comments at the Public Symposium on “The Role of Parliament in the Field of Democracy Assistance”Before I introduce former Senator Nancy Kassebaum Baker, which I consider a great honor, I want to make three points about the role of parliaments in democracy assistance. The first is that parliaments have a special role to play in highlighting the importance of democracy and human rights in international relations and in a country’s foreign policy. This is certainly true in a presidential system such as ours in the United States, where you have the separation of powers; but I think it is also true in a parliamentary system such as the one that exists here in Japan.The executive branch of government will always focus on state-to-state relations. That is what governments do in foreign relations – they relate to other governments. It is within the parliament that you are most likely to get individuals who raise issues having to do with human rights; and who are concerned with values and long-term objectives, such as the promotion of democracy, as opposed to day-to-day policy considerations. In the U.S. there is often a tension between the Congress and the Administration — the latter prefers quiet diplomacy, while the former often presses for more public statements on human rights and more political pressure on non-democratic governments. I think this is a creative tension that produces a more balanced, integrated foreign policy.Earlier today one of the participants, Nobuaki Tanaka, said that Japanese foreign policy, and Asian policy more generally, is “driven by concerns for stability” and is very conservative. The West, he said, is more likely to speak out for human rights and to press for sanctions on offending states. I don’t deny that there are cultural differences between Asia and the West. But I suggest that one factor that explains the different approaches to foreign policy is that parliaments in Asia tend to be weak and unassertive. Tanaka-san said that more grassroots action by NGOs would focus greater attention on human rights issues. I agree. But I also think that a more active parliament would have a great impact on foreign policy and would place issues related to human rights and democracy on the agenda. Japan may be headed in this direction. It is not an accident, after all, that we are having this meeting on democracy in the Diet. That’s where you find the energy to push ahead on the initiative to establish a new democracy foundation.Such a foundation cannot succeed if there is not a political consensus supporting it, and that leads to my second point: Parliaments are the vehicle in a democracy through which consensus can be established among the various parties. It is in parliament all the parties are represented, so it is the natural arena where they can come together to fashion a common approach to an issue of this kind — the creation of a new institution to promote democracy — that will give all the parties a sense of ownership. Such a consensus is especially important once the foundation is up and running. If the government changes hands, the foundation will not be affected. It will have stability and be able to pursue long-term objectives — and the promotion of democracy is nothing if not a long-term objective.Finally, the parliament can secure the independence of a democracy foundation from control by the executive or the bureaucracy. It stands between the government and the foundation, assuring that the foundation will be able to pursue consistent, long-term objectives and not become a mere instrument used by the government to achieve short-term policy goals. Such independence is indispensable if the foundation is to be effective and be regarded abroad as a genuine advocate of democracy, one that can earn the trust of non-governmental activists who are on the front-lines in struggles to defend human rights, fight corruption, and improve democratic governance.These are issues that Nancy Kassebaum always understood when she was a Senator representing the great state of Kansas. To be sure, when the National Endowment for Democracy (NED) was first proposed, she was a skeptic who had to be convinced that a new institution was needed and could actually make a difference. She raised questions, but once she was convinced that the NED was a serious institution able to advance important American interests, she became one of our most devoted friends. She had a special interest in Africa, since she was the Chair of the Africa Subcommittee of the Committee on Foreign Relations, and also in women. Her door was always open when we had visitors from African NGOs or from organizations promoting women’s participation and empowerment. She also took part in our events and conferences, introducing in 1989 the future Nicaraguan President Violeta Chamorro, and at another conference presenting our 1995 Democracy Award to Monique Mujawamariya, the Rwandan human rights activist who survived the genocide in her country the year before. Senator Kassebaum has not only been a voice for a democratic foreign policy; she also has an attribute that I know is appreciated in Japan — she is a wise person. I personally have benefitted from her sound advice. I’m proud that Nancy Kassebaum Baker is representing the United States in Japan, and I’m honored to introduce her to you today._____________________Comments in response to a question about political apathy in advanced democraciesI am reminded of a comment made by the American abolitionist leader Wendall Phillips 150 years ago, that the price of liberty is eternal vigilance. In all advanced democracies that are stable and relatively unified, there is a tendency for the public to become apathetic and uninvolved. It might be different if a country were deeply divided and people participated in politics because they had a great stake in the outcome of political conflicts. But that is not a condition that one would wish for.One way to address the problem of non-involvement is through civic education. Uwe Optenhoegel of the Frederich Ebert Stiftung earlier pointed out that the German party foundations spend half of their money inside Germany on civic education programs. This is something that Japan will have to consider if and when it creates its own democracy foundation. Two years ago, when I first met Mrs. Sohma, I mentioned to her that I had read the civic education manual written by her father for the Japanese people near the end of his life. I remember clearly what she said: Japan never carried out such a program of civic education once the Cold War began and all energies were put into economic reconstruction. She thought there was still a big job to do in this area.A democracy foundation can also promote education about democracy simply by connecting NGOs and others in Japan to people in non-democratic countries that are struggling to build democracy. Such people exist in scores of countries. Knowing who they are, what their struggles are about, how much they want democracy, and how much courage and commitment they demonstrate in fighting for it — knowing all of this is a powerful antidote against taking democracy for granted. Helping those who are working for democracy is thus an excellent cure for complacency. That is one of the unintended benefits that might accompany the establishment of a democracy foundation in Japan._____________________Remarks at the Reception hosted by both Chairpersons of the HouseI want to thank Speaker Watanuki and President Kurata for so graciously hosting this reception, and especially for their important remarks embracing the work of democracy foundations and encouraging Japan to enhance its efforts in this field.We have had a truly wonderful conference. I believe that Japan is proceeding the right way in considering how it might enhance the role of parliament and NGOs is promoting democracy. The creation of a Diet League with the participation of all the parties is of great significance. Having a consensus from the beginning of this process augurs well for a successful outcome.It has been 12 years since I first spoke with Ambassador Yukio Sato about the idea of Japan’s establishing a foundation like our own which would have the purpose of advancing democracy through non-governmental efforts.There were many discussions after that. But the idea did not begin to gather momentum until people associated with the Diet became involved. Starting with Yukihisa Fujita and then Taro Kono, the coalition grew to include former Prime Minister Hata and former Justice Minister Tanikawa to the point where today we have had this excellent conference with broad participation from the Diet. This is tremendously encouraging.I want to say a special word about two people. The first is Yukika Sohma, the daughter of Yukio Ozaki. She has participated in the entire conference, humbling us by her presence. She is not only a great democrat but, like her father, she is an independent and irrepressible democratic spirit.The second is Schu Sugawara, the organizer of this conference, whose mother passed away just the day before the conference began. Despite his great personal loss, he has been with us for most of the conference, taking care of every detail to ensure the success of this important meeting. He is doing this to honor his mother, who believed in helping people who are poor and lack freedom.On behalf of the eight democracy foundations from six countries that took part in this conference, I want to say how grateful we all are for your hospitality and how much we look forward to Japan’s participation in the worldwide effort to promote democracy. Japan has an important contribution to make to this cause, and we are all ready to be helpful in whatever way we can as you develop your new initiative.In my opening remarks yesterday, I mentioned that 70 years ago Yukio Ozaki wrote a prophetic essay. He had already seen that modem technology was creating a new global civilization. The new world, he wrote, was like a human body in that injury to any part of it would cause suffering to the whole. These words are even more relevant today than when they were written. Let us strengthen our cooperation in promoting democracy and our solidarity with those who are struggling for democracy. And through democracy let us build a new and more peaceful world order.Thank you for welcoming us so graciously!Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellow George Sarpong examined the approaches to digital...Joseph Nye and Shanthi Kalathil joined the Pacific...Read Carl Gershman's op/ed abou the repression of Uyghurs.One way or another, a transition in North Korea is...In the wake of the 2013-14 Maidan protests and change...The National Endowment for Democracy is pleased to join with the U.S. Holocaust...
#Remarks by Nadia Diuk: 2002 DEMOCRACY SERVICE MEDAL Awarded to JAN NOWAK#September 1, 2002#When Carl informed me a couple of days ago that he had put me on the program for today’s event, I started to look through some of the materials relating to Jan Nowak’s life and work and realized-this is a mammoth and overwhelming task! The story of some parts of his life, are already, I believe, being made into an action movie. He has been an inspiration and an intellectual authority for at least three generations of Poles, and also the quintessential “courier,” the bearer and deliverer of messages, the force that conveyed crucial information that helped to shape history.He was a part of the Polish resistance during World War II, and played a critical role in maintaining links with the Polish government in exile in London; he saw his home town Warsaw, reduced to rubble, but took on the dangerous mission of smuggling out microfilm showing the devastation to an unbelieving outside world. There can’t be many people left who remember Jan from those years, so we can only imagine what it must have been like to be forced into exile, to suffer the loss of many brave colleagues in the armed struggle, and to contemplate a future without a homeland.During his twenty-five years as Director of the Polish Service at Radio Free Europe he showed himself to be one of those rare individuals who sets the standard for everyone else. The quality of materials broadcast by the Polish service, made it a reputable and trusted source of information for a traumatized post-war generation of Poles. This was not always such an easy and straightforward enterprise. I was interested to read that in 1956, when the wave of rebellion and revolution swept through Eastern Europe, and the idealistic hopes raised by the Hungarians ended in defeat and a sense of betrayal with many lives lost, the Polish service of Radio Free Europe stuck to a message of caution and restraint for the Polish people. It must have been hard to go against the grain, even though this approach was vindicated in the end. Under Jan’s leadership, Radio Free Europe played a leading role in creating the intellectual foundations for the emergence of the Solidarity opposition in the 1970s. A whole generation of Solidarity’s leaders and activists had grown up tuning into the short wave station; Lech Walesa said that he listened to RFE avidly from the age of thirteen. During the time I spent in Poland, in the early 1980s, there were two people-towering figures-whose names were pronounced with an almost sacred reverence by people in the Polish opposition-Jan Nowak was one and the other, his colleague Jerzy Giedroyc, the long time editor of the Paris-based emigre journal Kultura, which also played an extremely important role in helping to develop and spread the ideas that would eventually emerge as the unique Polish response to communist dictatorship.By that time, Jan was in Washington, again helping to convey the message to the U.S. administration about what was going on in Poland. During those years, he was Poland’s true ambassador in the United States. At a time when the Cold War was taken for granted as an immutable fixture of foreign policy and the “Captive Nations,” just a reminder of a distant past history, Jan took it upon himself to explain the qualitatively new form of resistance to the communist regime that had emerged in Poland in the aftermath of the martial law crackdown. In a letter to Carl Gershman dated January 1985, he stressed “…the independent structures of freedom forces not only have withstood all repressive measures, arrests, efforts at intimidation and infiltration, but have expanded their activities in such areas as the free flow of information and ideas, independent education, publications, creative cultural activities etc.” And he added, prophetically: “Continuation and expansion of the help from the NED is therefore literally a matter of life and death for the future struggle for democracy not just in Poland but in other countries of the Soviet block, which sooner of later may become infected by the Polish example.” And so, Jan threw his energy into lobbying support not only for the outlawed Solidarity trade union, but also for assistance to former political prisoners and their families and support for the underground Councils for Independent Education, Cultural Affairs, and Academic Studies, known by the acronym, OKNO. He explained the importance of support to Zeszyty Literacki, an underground journal published in Paris and reprinted in a miniature format in Poland, as well as the English language bulletin Uncensored Poland published in London. He visited the Independent Polish Agency based in the south of Sweden, which specialized in smuggling video and photographic materials into and out of Poland, and recommended them for our support, as well as the underground publishing house consortium put together by Irena Lasota and her colleagues in Poland.These were the first set of programs supported by the NED to help underground activists in Poland lay the groundwork for the revolution of 1989. Later programs, which could be carried out in the environment of a free society took up problems such as restoring local democracy, building a system of civic education, and mobilizing support for the new democracy through the American Committee to Aid Poland. Our direct support for programs in Poland finally decreased as Poland’s democracy grew stronger until, by the late 1990s the NED was primarily assisting Polish organizations the Foundation for Education for Democracy, the Institute for Democracy in Eastern Europe and the Polish-Czech-Slovak Solidarity Association in their efforts to promote democracy farther east.When the first trickle of Solidarity activists started to visit Washington in the late 1980s; people like Janusz Onyszkiewicz, Andrzej Celinski, Czeslaw Bielecki and others, their first mandatory meetings were always with Jan Nowak, to get them oriented in the political environment here, but also-you could tell from the way they talked about him-to pay homage to the legendary figure they knew so well from afar, from his years of tireless work for freedom and democracy in Poland.Since then, he has seen Poland gain its freedom; the collapse of the Soviet Union; and the entrance of Poland into NATO. Yet he continues to work just as vigorously on other issues such as Chechnya, the need for the Baltic states to enter NATO, and most recently publishing a wonderful tribute to America in the Washington Post, to remind us all of the values this country was built on.And how many of you know that Jan is also a prolific contributor to the press in Poland? We did an FBIS search and turned up his recent articles on politics, the economic situation, comments on unemployment, and all the important issues for Poland today.With all of these accolades, and superlatives, anyone who didn’t know him might think that this is a formidable and serious personality, which he is, but at the same time he has a marvelous sense of humor and a real joy for life-I’ve never met anyone who had a boring conversation with Jan Nowak. It’s hard to pay adequate tribute to a man whose actions have been so integral to the turbulent struggles of Poland and Eastern Europe in the past fifty years. Most of us are shaped by the environment around us, but there are the few rare individuals who shape the times in which we live, and Jan is just such a person.Jan, thank you very much for your help, your support and friendship, and for being an inspiration to us all! Niech Pan Zyie jeszce sto lat! (May you celebrate another hundred years!)A half-day conference honoring the legacy of Jan Nowak-Jeziorański.The 2002 Democracy Service Medals were given to Jan...The staff and directors of the National Endowment for...We are pleased to announce its Fall 2018 cohort of...Geshe la and Tenzin Palkyi sit down with VOA Tibetan...
#Recipient Bios, 2002 Demcoracy Award#July 9, 2002#Nadjet Bouda, at the age of 23, is already a well-known human rights activist. She is currently working with SOS Disparus, an organization that advocates on behalf of the hundreds of Algerians who have “disappeared” as a result of Algeria’s ongoing civil war. When she was 16, Ms. Bouda joined Rally for Youth Action, an NGO that develops and implements civic education and human rights awareness programs with and for Algerian youth; by the age of 20 she was acting as the organization’s President and spokeswoman. Her activism reflects the importance of youth in the effort to spread democratic values throughout the Muslim world.  Mehrangiz Kar is a prominent Iranian attorney, writer, and activist who has been working to promote democracy, rule of law, and human rights within the framework of Islamic law in Iran since the revolution of 1979. In her speeches and writings, she has criticized discrimination against women and non-Muslims in the Islamic Republic of Iran. In April 2000, following her participation in a symposium in Berlin, she was arrested and imprisoned on charges of acting against national security interests. Last fall, she was released on bail and allowed to go abroad to seek medical treatment in the West. Ms. Kar is the wife of Mr. Siamak Pourzand, a well-known journalist, who is currently unjustly imprisoned in Tehran. Concerned for his health and safety, human rights organizations are seeking his immediate release.  Mariam Hussein Mohamed is Founder and Co-Chairperson of Somalia’s leading human rights group, the Dr. Ismail Jumale Human Rights Organization (DIJHRO). Her group impartially monitors human rights conditions, documents violations committed by all groups in Somalia, and has also conducted numerous human rights campaigns and training activities. Mrs. Mohamed is also the co-founder of the Peace and Human Rights Network (PHRN), an umbrella group of twenty-four prominent Somali civil society organizations across the country. Living with her daughter in the most devastated area of Mogadishu, Mrs. Mohamed continues her work under constant threat in the midst of a dangerous armed conflict, and within a sharply divided society.Muborak Tashpulatova is Director of the Tashkent Public Education Center (TPEC). The Center, which was founded by a group of Uzbek educators, has produced textbooks on civic education, handbooks for teaching human rights, and has conducted “town hall” style civic forums for parents, youth, and government. Its 9th grade textbook on Uzbekistan’s constitution has been adopted for use in all high schools in the country. TPEC organizes seminars on civic education and related teaching methodologies in which over 1,000 educators have participated.
#Remarks by President Vicente Fox Quesada, on accepting the 2001 Democracy Award#September 5, 2001#Ladies and Gentlemen: I would like to thank the National Endowment for Democracy for this undeserved honor. I view this award as a tribute to the Mexican people, rather than to its recipient. The credit of Mexico’s peaceful transition to a genuinely democratic regime, which this award is intended to honor, belongs only to the citizens of Mexico. For the greater part of its history as an independent nation, Mexico has struggled to become a stable and prosperous republic based on democratic principles and the rule of law. This goal was to prove difficult to achieve. During the 19th Century, many decades were lost as a result of civil and political discord within the country. Due to the inability of successive governments to bring order and civility to the country, the economic progress and even the security of Mexico remained fragile. And we paid very dearly for that. Then came a long and harsh dictatorship that lasted for more than three decades, which promoted Mexico’s economic progress at the expense of its people. This authoritarian regime was only brought to an end by the force of arms during the Mexican Revolution. Out of the ashes of that movement there emerged a new political class that sought to change Mexico’s fate on the basis of the revolutionary ideals and the rules of democratic government. However, as time passed by, the opposition inside and many observers abroad developed a lack of trust in the fairness of elections, which weakened the legitimacy of the regime. For 70 years, a single political party won, by any means, fair or foul, every presidential election, the overwhelming majority of seats in both houses of Congress, and most state and local elections. And although I would not wish to decry the social and economic progress that Mexico achieved during those years, the fact remains that poverty and inequality spread out and undermined the roots of our society. Elections held on July 2, 2000, marked the end of that era and the transition from single-party rule to a democratic form of government, that relies on fundamental checks and balances between the branches of government and on free and fair elections. The new Mexican democracy was a collective effort, not an individual achievement. It was built over many years and by countless people; political parties undoubtedly played a leading role in this process, but so did members of non-governmental organizations as well as many other individuals committed to  the democratic ideal. The media was also crucial in defending civil liberties and promoting the democratic values. And even members of previous Administrations played a part in developing a new electoral system that guaranteed fairness to all.  But the greatest credit must go to the people of Mexico, who on July of last year, calmly and peacefully embraced a new vision for our country’s political life. And yet, in spite of their significance, these elections are only the first step in the process of strengthening our democratic institutions. Mexican democracy is, at the same time, an achievement and a day-to-day goal for our society as a whole. It is now required that we not only deepen the values that are part and parcel of democracy, but also promote a form of economic development that serves all and benefits all. Thus, political change must translate into tangible economic progress and the gradual eradication of poverty. My government is keenly aware of its social responsibilities and will seek to fulfill them within the framework of responsible economic management. We are working to stamp out corruption and impunity throughout Mexico. We are aware of the tremendous costs that these evils have had for our country and we will devote every effort to eradicate them. We intend to create the right economic conditions so that every man, woman and child in Mexico has an opportunity to fully develop his or her capabilities and abilities to choose. Ladies and Gentlemen: I am grateful for this honor that I have accepted on behalf of the people of Mexico, a nation that has chosen the path of democratic government. That is an achievement worth celebrating. But only when the values and the benefits of democratic government have reached every corner of our country, we will be satisfied that the task has been duly accomplished. It may not be possible to achieve this end within the lifetime of one Administration. But it is nonetheless a cause for personal satisfaction and national pride that we have embarked on this bold journey.  Thank you.Andreas Schedler is professor of political science at the Center for Economic...Transparency and the Struggle for Accountability in...The October 2018 issue of the Journal of Democracy...Digital Security and Press Freedom in Latin AmericaFeaturing:Mariclaire...The 2012 Mexican Elections: A New Test for Democracy
#2001 Democracy Service Medal Recipient Bios#April 12, 2001#John Brademas has served as Chairman of the Board of Directors of the National Endowment for Democracy since 1993. President Emeritus of New York University, John was NYU’s President from 1981 to 1992. Before coming to New York, he represented South Bend, Indiana, in the U.S. House of Representatives for 22 years – from 1959 to 1981 – the last four as House Majority Whip. In Congress, he was a principal author of major legislation to support schools, colleges, universities, libraries, museums, the arts and humanities. He serves as Chairman of the President’s Committee on the Arts and Humanities.  Fred Charles Iklé joined the Center for Strategic & International Studies as a Distinguished Scholar in 1988. He was Undersecretary of Defense for Policy in the Reagan Administration and served presidents Nixon and Ford as Director of the U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency. A former Chairman of the Republican National Committee’s Advisory Council on International Security, Fred is the author of several major books, including How Nations Negotiate and Every War Must End.  Richard G. Lugar is the senior U.S. Senator from Indiana and the longest serving Senator in Hoosier history. First elected to the Senate in 1976, Dick has served as Chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee and is widely respected as a leading voice both in the Senate and the nation as a whole on all aspects of international affairs. As Chairman of the Senate Agriculture Committee, he led the most sweeping reform of agricultural policy since the 1930s. The former two-time Mayor of Indianapolis has shattered all statewide U.S. Senate election records.  Stephen J. Solarz served in public office for 24 years, both in the New York State Assembly and in the U.S. House of Representatives. He was elected from Brooklyn’s 13th Congressional District to the House in 1974 and reelected eight times. Steve played a major leadership role on the House Foreign Affairs Committee, where he served as Chairman of the Subcommittees on Asia and Africa. In 1993, he was appointed by President Clinton as Chairman of the Board of the Central Asian American Enterprise Fund.2001 Democracy Service MedalPresented to:This is an important occasion to bring together the...The National Endowment for Democracy (NED) is issuing...On Thursday, September 11, at 11:00 AM, the National...On September 18, 2007, the National Endowment for Democracy..."Russia's International Media Poisons Minds""The Kremlin is...
#Making Democracy Work: Accountability &; Transparency#January 7, 2001#Carl Gershman, PresidentThe National Endowment for DemocracyNew Delhi, IndiaWelcoming Remarks at the Inaugural Conference of the Asian Center for Democratic Development, January 7, 2001I’m delighted to be with you at the launching of the Asian Center for Democratic Governance. This is the second major initiative that the National Endowment for Democracy (NED) and the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) have undertaken together. The first was the founding assembly of the World Movement for Democracy, which met here in New Delhi almost two years ago. The World Movement just held its second assembly in Sao Paulo, Brazil, and is now well established with regional and functional networks of democracy practitioners operating all over the world. We look forward to the continued participation of Indian NGOs, business and political leaders, trade unionists, intellectuals, and human rights defenders in this important global movement.We are now gathered to establish a center to strengthen democratic governance in Asia, which President Clinton announced during his state visit to India last March. Never has such an initiative been more timely or urgently needed. While coming over on the plane, I read a lead editorial in this week’s Economist entitled “Asia’s Teetering Trio.” It was subtitled “Indonesia, Thailand, and the Philippines face a testing in 2001.” And, indeed, they do. In each of these three important Asian countries, democracy has at best sunk shallow roots and is by no means secure. The year ahead will be difficult for all of them.In Indonesia, long pent-up demands for decentralization have fueled a half-dozen separatist rebellions at a time when foreign and domestic investment have collapsed and the military has yet to disengage from national politics. In Thailand, the individual who has probably just been elected the Prime Minister could be exiled from national politics for five years for violating the country’s new anti-corruption law. And the Philippines is also in turmoil as the impeachment trial of President Estrada proceeds amidst bombings and growing economic disarray.That’s the bad news. The good news is that so far these new democracies are weathering the stormy seas. In Thailand, let us remember, the impasse has come about because there is an anti-corruption law that is being enforced. At an earlier time in Thailand’s history, the military might already have deposed the government, as it has done 17 times in the past 70 years. But so far the army has remained in the barracks.In the Philippines, the impeachment process is taking place under the constitution and is another example of an Asian movement against perceived corruption and bad government.And in Indonesia, which is the youngest and most threatened of the new democracies in Asia, and also by far the largest, President Wahid is carrying out a brave fight to keep the military at bay and to give democracy a chance to succeed.We know the obstacles to democracy in these countries and elsewhere in Asia. Democracy cannot become firmly rooted unless corruption is rooted out, and that will require mechanisms to ensure transparency and accountability and a long struggle to make them effective. The many other challenges include establishing stable party systems and dealing with the inevitable problems associated with money in politics; continuing to reduce the role of the military in politics; achieving economic reform and levels of growth that can help lift people out of poverty; strengthening local government and other forms of decentralization; defending human rights where they continue to be violated; encouraging the growth of a vigorous and vigilant civil society; strengthening independent media; and broadening the participation of women and traditionally excluded minorities in all aspects of political, economic, and social life.And the list could go on. We have a long agenda because the work of building and rooting democracy involves so much more than ensuring free and fair elections though that is critical and fundamental. And it will be a difficult agenda to carry out. It was not that long ago when the collapse of weak democracies, such as in Weimar Germany, brought about the rise of terrible dictatorships and destructive wars. Today we can be more hopeful, but never complacent. It is democracy that is moving forward, and dictatorship that is trying desperately to hold on by adjusting to the demands of modern life and the pressures of competing in the world economy. In an article on Asian democracy in today’s International Herald Tribune, an analyst from Thailand refers to the possibility of Vietnam becoming one of the new “dominoes of democracy,” thereby standing on its head the old Cold War theory that saw a communist takeover in Vietnam precipitating similar advances throughout Asia.The great strength of democracy, even weak democracy, was noted by Amartya Sen in his keynote address to the founding assembly of the World Movement for Democracy. It gives people in need a voice and, by so doing, plays a protective role against so many different forms of political and economic abuse. This explains, according to Sen, why famines have never occurred in an independent and democratic country with a free press. In that regard, one can only note with sadness and a sense of urgency that the military dictatorship in Burma is not only doing nothing to avert a growing health crisis, but it even refuses to acknowledge an AIDS epidemic which is now the worst in Asia.And so there is a great need for this new Asian Center for Democratic Governance, which will help new democracies develop ways to make democracy work for people at the grassroots. It can even look forward to a time when countries that are now autocratic will join the ranks of the new democracies and participate in the historic work of democratic consolidation.The role of India in this process cannot be over-estimated. It is the world’s largest democracy. It has grappled with all the problems that confront the new democracies from poverty and economic reform to the immensely difficult issues of pluralism and minority rights; from conducting the most complex elections in the world to bringing democracy to the local level through the panchayat system. It has managed to do this decade after decade in a regional and international environment that has never been without tensions and security concerns.As democracy goes through the difficult pains of birth and growth in so many different parts of Asia, the readiness of India to reach out and cooperate with emerging democracies becomes increasingly important for the future of the whole region and the world. It is in that spirit that I welcome the launching of this Asian Center for Democratic Governance, and I look forward to its development into an influential new instrument for strengthening our common democratic values.The October 2017 issue features six essays on Russia's autocracy, a debate on...Harry Harding presently holds a dual appointment as...Donald K. Emmerson is director of the Southeast Asia...Forum director Shanthi Kalathil reviews Nadege Rolland's...Carl Gershman delivers remarks at B'nai Israel Congregation, Rockville, Maryland...
#2000 NED Democracy Award honors Heroes of Human Rights and Democracy in Kosovo##The Endowment presented its annual Democracy Award to Veton Surroi, the editor and publisher of Koha Ditore, the most widely read Albanian language daily in Kosovo, and Natasa Kandic, head of the Belgrade-based human rights organization, the Humanitarian Law Center, which has been documenting human rights violations in Yugoslavia since 1992.Veton Surroi was a member of the Albanian delegation to the Kosovo peace talks in Ramboulliet, France, and remained in Kosovo during the war, despite being targeted by Milosevic. Surroi hid underground during the eleven weeks of the siege, emerging only to change hiding places four times.When most other NGO leaders in Serbia had been silenced by intimidation from the Milosevic regime, Natasa Kandic bravely continued her work and spoke out against the Serbian attacks in Kosovo. During the war in Kosovo, she, at great personal risk, shuttled back and forth between Kosovo and Belgrade, first to save her own terrorized Albanian staff members, and then to collect information on human rights abuses to disseminate to the outside world, including the International War Crimes Tribunal in the Hague.Carl Gershman, NED President, provided additional remarks at the ceremony.
#1999 Democracy Service Medal Recipient Bios#April 12, 1999#In 1989, Ambassador Bútora was a cofounder of the Public Against Violence movement, the leading Slovak force in the Velvet Revolution against communism. Following the revolution he served as a human rights advisor to President Vaclav Havel. After the “velvet divorce,” during which the Czech and Slovak republics peacefully separated into two countries, Bútora continued his democratic activism in Slovakia, eventually becoming a co-founder of OK ’98, the coalition of nongovernmental organizations that played a key role in restoring Slovakia’s democratic transition. Wendy Luers, president of the Foundation for a Civil Society, presented NED’s award to Bútora, describing both him and his wife, Zora Bútorová, as “incredibly important leaders of the NGO sector” in Slovakia. Luers said that despite Slovakia’s difficult times following its split with the Czech Republic, the Bútoras chose to remain there. Instead of leaving, “they used their rooftop as a place for intellectuals, for the politicians, [and] the NGO leaders of Slovakia, and talked about the future,” she said.In his acceptance remarks, Bútora asked the audience not to forget the sacrifices made by many individuals for the sake of democratic change. “We should pay tribute to them and never, never forget them,” he said. Bútora proudly went on to report that during Slovakia’s last election, 80 percent of the 380,000 voters aged 18 to 21 voted, compared with 20 percent in the 1994 elections, thanks to programs such as the NED-supported “Rock the Vote” campaign. More than two-thirds of those young voters supported the opposition, helping to oust authoritarian president Vladimir Meciar.Ambassador Vondra’s entire adult life has been focused on bringing democracy to the Czech Republic. After graduating from college in 1985 he became involved in the democratic opposition, working on samizdat publications and helping to build coalitions with democrats in other eastern bloc countries, including Poland and Hungary. He signed the pro-freedom document, Charter 77, and as a result was forced to take jobs outside his profession, including one as a boilermaker. By 1989 Vondra had become a spokesperson for the organization Charter 77 and a co-founder of the Civic Forum movement, eventually earning himself two months in prison for his role in organizing opposition demonstrations in January 1989. Since the revolution, Vondra has served as a foreign policy advisor to President Havel in several capacities, including Deputy Foreign Minister.Irena Kirkland, the widow of former AFL-CIO President Lane Kirkland and a native Czech who was imprisoned for three weeks following the Communist takeover because of her democratic activism, presented the Democracy Service Medal to Ambassador Vondra. In her remarks she quipped that Vondra had lived out the Soviet dream, rising from a boilermaker to become Ambassador to the United States.The National Endowment for Democracy (NED) will honor the late Senator John...2007 Democracy Service MedalPresented to: Mort Abramowitz, ...Because Jean has given service to that notion, with...Read remarks by Carl Gershman during Democracy Serivce...Remarks by Carl Gershman at Voices from the Congo:...On May 25, Nigeria's Transition Monitoring Group (TMG), a coalition of more...
#We Should Welcome Taiwan’s Democratization#March 24, 1999#Remarks by Carl Gershman, President, March 4, 1999The National Endowment for DemocracyRemarks given at the “Two Decades of US-Taiwan Relations” Conference sponsored by the Woodrow Wilson Center and the American Institute in TaiwanWhen I was invited to address the issue of Taiwan’s democratization and its impact on US-Taiwan relations, it was suggested that I was to represent the idealist point of view — presumably counterposed to the realism of my colleague Harry Harding. I doubt that Harry is any happier with this dichotomy than I am. I’m sure he thinks he has some claim to idealism, and I certainly believe that I’m a realist. If I can guess where the line might appropriately be drawn in this discussion, it is between those who welcome Taiwan’s democratization as a hopeful development, and those who think it poses a new obstacle to unification with the mainland and thus constitutes a threat both to regional stability and constructive relations between the United States and China.It is possible, of course, for someone to straddle this line — to believe that Taiwan’s democratization contains both hopeful and destabilizing elements. Even if this is true, it doesn’t follow that the destabilizing elements are necessarily a bad thing. It depends on how one defines the problem. “The worst, the most corrupting of lies,” the French philosopher Georges Bernanos once wrote, “are problems poorly stated.” If the problem is the de facto independence of Taiwan, which is intolerable to China, then the solution is unification. From this point of view, Taiwan’s democratization is a negative factor since the people there do not want to be absorbed into China’s rigid authoritarian system.But if that system itself is seen to be the problem, and the principal source of regional tension, then the solution is China’s democratization, a process that will be stimulated by the successful model of Chinese democracy that now exists across the Taiwan Straits. As President Lee Teng-hui said following his victory in Taiwan’s first direct presidential election, “The fruits of the Taiwan experience will certainly take root on the Chinese mainland.” From this point of view, therefore, Taiwan’s democratization is part of the solution, not part of the problem.It is becoming increasingly apparent that China’s dictatorship is an anomaly in today’s world and an obstacle to the successful modernization of the country. It is hard to see, for example, how China can deal with the explosive problem of corruption in the absence of a free press, an independent judiciary, and a process of free elections that introduces the principle of political accountability. Nor is it realistic to assume that China’s autocratic political leaders, who are desperate to hold onto total power, are prepared or even able to take the bold steps needed to make China competitive in the global economy. The “instability” that they warned against at the just-concluded annual meeting of the National People’s Congress is the inevitable by-product of a system that cannot adapt to the sweeping changes of the modern world.The same factors that block reform also explain China’s bullying international behavior. At the conclusion of a century during which every other empire has been dismantled, from the Hapsburgs to the global empires of the various European powers to the “Evil Empire” of the Soviet Union, Beijing audaciously claims the right to control the empire of the Manchu dynasty. This imperial impulse is partly the result of China’s wish to assert its great-power status. But it can also be traced to the same defensiveness that blocks China’s adaptation to the economic and political dynamics of the contemporary world.Beijing’s dilemma is that the energy and momentum of change within the Chinese world today is flowing from the periphery to the center, meaning from Taiwan and the overseas Chinese communities to the mainland and not the other way around. As long as the mainland refuses to adapt to change, it will regard the periphery as a threat to its survival and will act accordingly. In this respect, Taiwan represents the greatest challenge, “a standing rebuke,” in the words of Orville Schell, “to the Communists’ insistence that Chinese culture is incompatible with liberal democratic institutions.”This juxtaposition of the new Taiwan democracy with the authoritarian system on the mainland obviously creates many problems and tensions, not the least of which is that it is hard to conceive of any way to resolve the issue of Taiwan’s status that would be acceptable to both China and Taiwan. Since the issue is the international status of Taiwan, which is a democratically self-governing entity, it seems entirely appropriate to invoke the principle of international law which stipulates that the determination of such status take due account of “the freely expressed wishes of the people concerned.” In this case, the people of Taiwan have not yet opted for de jure independence. They seem to recognize that taking this step would be provocative in the present context, and so they have accepted the status quo of de facto independence as the next best option. Given their pragmatism and moderation, the international community has a special obligation to respect their fundamental rights.It is also not terribly realistic to try to resolve the Taiwan issue over the heads or behind the backs of the Taiwan people. They would certainly resist pressure toward this end and would be able to draw upon a broad reservoir of support in our own and other democracies.But the present impasse will not last forever. Since we are approaching the twentieth anniversary of the Taiwan Relations Act, it seems an appropriate time to reflect on how the world has changed during this period. Taiwan’s democratization has been part of a global trend that political scientists have called “the third wave.” Next month is the tenth anniversary of another milestone — the successful conclusion of the roundtable negotiations in Poland which set in motion the events leading to the fall of the Berlin Wall and the collapse of the Soviet Union. The fact that we are also rapidly approaching the tenth anniversary of the crackdown in Tiananmen Square suggests that China is not immune to these global trends and the forces that propel them, even if it was able to suppress the uprising of 1989. I note, for example, that the current issue of The Economist cautions against counting on the “long-term survival” of China’s Communist Party.It is more realistic, in my view, and also more compatible with our values, to base policy on the possible democratization of China than it is to try to override the democratic consensus in Taiwan in order to remove an issue of contention in relations with China. In fact, it is hard to imagine a resolution of the issue of Taiwan’s status in the absence of democratization on the mainland. I would not venture a guess as to what that final status might be. But I feel fairly certain that in that new context, the issue would not be the lightening rod that it is today.An International Forum working paper on foreign authoritarian influence from...Writing for Policy Options, NED Vice President for...Democracy in East Asia and Taiwan in Global PerspectiveA...What are the key challenges facing India as the world's...This project gives a rare glimpse into a situation...He addressed the struggle for democracy and the rule of law in China.
#Carl Gershman’s Statement to the Subcommittee on International Operations and Human Rights Committee on International Relations#March 4, 1999#Remarks by Carl Gershman, PresidentThe National Endowment for DemocracyChairman Smith, Congresswoman McKinney, and members of the Subcommittee: Thank you for offering me this opportunity to appear before you today to discuss the work of the National Endowment for Democracy and to defend the Administration’s request for FY2000. What this subcommittee has meant to those (small d) democrats with whom we work is impossible to measure, not just because you authorize the funding that enables us to support them, but also because you continue to serve as one of the leading voices in our country on behalf of all those fighting for freedom and human dignity, the cause to which we are mutually committed. The Administration’s request is $32 million, representing an increase of $1 million over the current year’s appropriation. With these funds, we support organizations in over 90 countries in every region of the world. Many of these programs are carried out by our four affiliated institutes: the American Center for International Labor Solidarity (ACILS), the Center for International Private Enterprise (CIPE), the International Republican Institute (IRI), and the National Democratic Institute for International Affairs (NDI). The Endowment works with scores of other groups, mostly indigenous, that are working to advance human rights, provide civic education, develop independent media, disseminate democratic values, and promote governmental transparency and accountability. We regard the Administration’s request as a vote of confidence in our work and are grateful for its continued support. That support has always come with the recognition that our country truly has a strong interest in the advancement of democracy, since those countries that respect the rights of their own citizens are far more likely to behave more peaceably toward their neighbors and the world community as a whole. Democratic Cooperation Since the Endowment was established 15 years ago, many new democracies have come into existence. It is well worth noting that last month marked the 10th Anniversary of the historic accord in Poland that set in motion the process of democratization in that country and that had such a major impact throughout the former Soviet Bloc. Today, many of the brave individuals who helped bring democracy to Poland, the Czech Republic, and to Hungary are helping to assist fellow democrats further to the east in programs funded by the Endowment. It was in that same spirit of democratic cooperation that representatives of over 80 countries met just last week in a historic gathering in New Delhi. Convened by the Endowment with two Indian partner organizations, the conference has set in motion a new World Movement for Democracy, a coalition of leading figures from politics, associational life, business, trade unions, the mass media, academia, and policy organizations around the world who are united by shared democratic values and a commitment to mutual support and solidarity. I shall return to this important development later in my statement, but let it be noted that the enthusiasm we experienced in New Delhi for the dozens of practical initiatives that will follow to promote democratic cooperation is eloquent affirmation of the continued relevance of our work. As the director of the new democracy promotion institute in Australia pointed out, unlike the (economic) aid field, where there is frequently harmful competition among donor organizations, the democratic assistance field has shown no such competition since the needs are so vast and the resources so limited. For while we celebrate the gains that have occurred since the Endowment was established, and work to stimulate the creation of counterpart democratic assistance organizations in both new and more established democracies, we should stop to consider the vast number of countries where democracy has not taken root, where the elements of civil society remain weak, where human rights are not respected, and where governing institutions remain unaccountable to the people. In fact, if we have learned anything at all from recent events in Eastern Asia, in Central Africa, in the Balkans and elsewhere, without democratic institutions there can be no economic stability, no peaceful resolution of conflict, and no means of keeping unaccountable leaders from transporting problems far from their borders. Let me hasten to add that despite these vast problems, we at the Endowment continue to be impressed by the quality, seriousness, and self-sacrifice of democratic activists in EVERY one of these situations. The fact that democracy is not a narrow, exclusively Western concept but rather, in the words of Nobel laureate Amartya Sen, “a universally relevant system,” is reaffirmed every day by the commitment of those men and women with whom we work. Two Heroes of Democracy Mr. Chairman, before sharing with you some of our recent and ongoing program highlights, I would like to pause to pay tribute to two key figures in our world who died within one week of each other last November. Dante Fascell was once the Chairman of this very subcommittee before becoming Chairman of the full Committee on Foreign Affairs. As noted repeatedly at his memorial service last month, Dante’s love for his country and its values led him to want to share them with the rest of the world. The Endowment was for him the embodiment of that worthy goal, and now stands as a major part of his legacy. At the memorial service, we were gratified to hear Chairman Gilman announce that the Committee would put on its agenda the establishment of a Dante Fascell Fellowship Program, to be housed at the Endowment’s research institute, the International Forum for Democratic Studies. When fully funded, the program would enable activists, scholars, journalists and practitioners from around the world to make significant contributions to the strengthening of democracy in their respective countries and regions, thus helping to fulfill the vision of our principal “founding father.” We look forward to working with the subcommittee and the full committee on this significant initiative. Halfway around the world, Galina Staravoitova’s brutal assassination in St. Petersburg at the age of 52 put a tragic end to one of the world’s most dedicated fighters for human rights and democracy. The Endowment had a long association with Galina, who was originally a grantee but became a trusted advisor, helping us develop priorities for our program in Russia. There is a congressional initiative led by Senator Biden to conduct a study of how best to establish a Russian democracy institute that would honor Galina’s memory in a very appropriate and practical way. As tragic as her death and the circumstances surrounding it for Russia’s democratic movement which she was so much a part of, the outpouring of grief and outrage by her fellow citizens offers some hope that many more are prepared to rally to the cause. Program Highlights The following illustrative examples of recent and ongoing programs will give you some idea of the scope and content of our work. Keep in mind that they represent a very small percentage of the more than 300 grants which we award annually. I. AFRICA The Africa grants program continues its involvement with the continent’s two most difficult and important challenges: Nigeria and Congo. NED committed more than $1 million to Nigeria last year, including 20 grants to human rights groups and independent press projects, and for women’s political empowerment, conflict resolution, and democratic action training. Major programs were also conducted by the American Center for International Labor Solidarity (ACILS) and the Center for International Private Enterprise (CIPE). The year began with many NED grantees in prison, in exile, or working underground. Two NED grantees participated in a new program of NED’s International Forum for Democratic Studies to train human rights librarians on how to use the internet for their work; one of them was detained upon his return. But with the death of dictator Sani Abacha on June 8, 1998, NED grantees quickly mobilized to take advantage of the new opportunities that soon emerged, having prepared the way after years of struggling to keep the flame of freedom, human rights, and democracy burning. Most political prisoners were freed, including NED grantees Beko Ransome-Kuti and Malam Shehu Sani of the Campaign for Democracy, Olisa Agbakoba of the United Action for Democracy, and trade unionists Frank Korkori and Milton Dabibi. Grantees swiftly organized to monitor the series of elections that were called, including the first round in December. Others pressed for changes in press laws, the annulment of pernicious security decrees, organization of a sovereign national conference, and reform of the security forces. Both the National Democratic Institute for International Affairs (NDI) and the International Republican Institute (IRI) conducted election observation missions for the presidential election last weekend, and all of us eagerly await their reports. In Congo, which slid from a process of steadily shrinking political space into civil war and a full-scale abrogation of human and civil rights, two NED grantees, Paul Nsapu and Sabin Banza, were detained for several months, while others have been harassed and some forced into exile. Yet in 10 cities across Congo, Endowment grantees bravely continue monitoring human rights violations, calling for tolerance and peaceful political negotiations, promoting women’s political participation, supporting independent media, and educating the Congolese public on its rights and responsibilities. In Kisangani, for example, NED grantee Groupe Justice et Liberation released the first comprehensive report on human rights violations in areas directly affected by the war. Two NED grantees, Voice of the Voiceless and the Friends of Nelson Mandela, collaborated to produce a weekly newsletter, Human Rights Weekly, which provides unbiased, current information on human rights developments. In Washington, the Endowment convened a series of informal meetings to build support for Congolese civil society; NED has become a key American rallying point for the Congolese democratic movement. Didier Kamundu Batundi, director of APREDICI, a NED subgrantee in Goma, won the 1998 Reebok Human Rights award, but has now been forced to work in exile. NED grantees continued to play prominent roles in the human rights and democracy struggles in Liberia and Sudan, where NED has mounted significant programs. Grantees in the Republic of Congo released a major human rights report in the aftermath of that country’s civil war, and in Mogadishu, Somalia, the Dr. Ismail Juma’le Human Rights Center organized a commemoration of the 50th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. NED grantee Gremeh Boucar of Radio Anfani of Niger won the Committee to Protect Journalists’ 1998 award. II. ASIA Mr. Chairman, I know the importance you and other members of the subcommittee attach to the work of Radio Free Asia (RFA), and I’d like to begin my description of some of our programs in the region by pointing out that more than half of NED’s Asian grantees have been tapped by RFA to host their own shows, give weekly commentaries, or to respond to requests from reporters for interviews. They are very grateful to the subcommittee which supports RFA, the Congress as a whole, and of course to the service itself for the opportunity to reach greater audiences. It is particularly significant to these activists that listeners turn short-wave radio into a two-way channel of communication by sending lettters and e-mail to our grantees with offers of cooperation. The diversity and vigor of the Chinese and Burmese democracy movements made these, as in past years, the largest recipients of Endowment assistance in Asia, including support for an extensive range of groups promoting human rights, civic education, political dialogue and democratic change. NED was able to highlight the struggle for democracy in China in a February ceremony honoring Wei Jingsheng and Wang Dan as co-recipients of the 1998 NED Democracy Award. Wei had just been released and exiled to the United States after 19 years in prison and Wang was still serving an 11-year sentence for his peaceful pro-democracy activities. At the ceremony, we heard the moving words of his mother communicated from China relating how much the award meant to the family. Later in the year, in the spotlight of intense international pressure, Wang was also exiled to the United States. NED grants continued to enable Chinese pro-democracy organizations to cut through official censorship and repression of independent voices. Endowment-supported programs sponsored a number of publications addressing issues currently proscribed or severely limited inside China, including several popular electronic mail and Web-based news services and opinion journals. Let me take this opportunity to highlight the work of the Chinese VIP Reference News, an internet-based news service that manages to reach more than 10% of the entire on-line population of China! Grantees also conducted research, circulated detailed studies proposing democratic solutions to intractable public policy problems, carried out human rights documentation and advocacy, and collaborated on programs designed to foster Chinese-Tibetan dialogue on long-term issues regarding the future of Tibet. NED provides funding for a Tibet-language newspaper, The Tibet Times, that is distributed throughout the Tibetan exile community, and a news service, The Tibet Voice, which disseminates information about the struggle for a democratic Tibet inside both China and Tibet. ACILS continued to support the efforts of labor activists to educate workers about their rights and document labor law violations. Endowment-supported programs enabled the circulation of a vast amount of timely and thought-provoking literature in Chinese, Tibetan, and English promoting the development of a democratic culture. NED’s institutes also continued to implement programs made possible by official Chinese reform policies. In the areas of local elections and economic liberalization, both IRI and CIPE continued their programs designed to extend and institutionalize promising areas of experimental reform. IRI continued its programs to strengthen legal protections for civil rights, to foster legislative independence, and to strengthen mechanisms conducive to transparent local-level elections. CIPE continued to support an extremely successful symposium series on public affairs in Beijing and other independent research on economic reform and governance reform issues. In Hong Kong, an NDI monitoring program leading up to the May 1998 elections helped support local efforts to increase voter understanding of the new and arcane electoral system installed by the Beijing-appointed provisional legislative council. The persistence of determined political and civic leaders, including 1997 NED Democracy Award recipient Martin Lee, was rewarded with extremely high voter turnout and an unexpectedly strong showing for staunch proponents of full democracy in Hong Kong. The Endowment continued to support the city’s leading legal and constitutional watchdog group, the Hong Kong Human Rights Monitor, and ACILS maintained its support for Hong Kong labor union programs to protect civil and worker rights. NED’s Burma program continued to provide extensive support to the dynamic Burmese pro-democracy movement both inside the country and among ethnic minorities and exiled pro-democracy groups in Thailand, India, and other countries. NED and its core institutes support an array of independent media and information sources, human rights documentation, institution-building, and women’s projects. The popular New Era Journal, a monthly Burmese-language newspaper with a circulation of more than 15,000 copies per issue, is distributed by hand through remote regions of the country. The Democratic Voice of Burma produces and transmits a daily shortwave radio program from Norway. The Federation of Trade Unions-Burma, in conjunction with ACILS, continues to educate workers and other citizens inside Burma about labor rights and to document violations of internationally-recognized labor rights. NED has continued to fund programs that strengthen civil society and aid the consolidation of democracy in Thailand, Mongolia, the Republic of Korea, Nepal, and Sri Lanka. Support for human rights and legal aid programs were also continued for Vietnam and Pakistan, respectively. Responding to the challenge of the continued state-imposed isolation of North Korea, NED also developed its first programs designed to call attention to massive human rights abuses and foster an opening to the people of that isolated dictatorship. All four NED institutes remain actively involved in Indonesia, having begun programs three or more years ago to support those forces in civil society pushing for reform and a democratic opening. The institutes’ ongoing involvement with counterpart institutions there, from independent think tanks to dissident labor leaders to the groundbreaking Independent Committee for Election Monitoring (KIPP), enabled them to respond rapidly to the dramatic political changes taking place. In Cambodia, Endowment-funded programs enabled IRI and NDI to monitor the highly contested lead-up to the July 1998 elections, in the wake of a coup less than 12 months before the scheduled polling date. One of the few positive legacies of this problematic election for Cambodia’s political future is the coherence and commitment of the domestic non-governmental election monitoring initiative, a pluralistic coalition effort nurtured over a three-year period by an NDI program. Continued NED assistance was directed toward the long-term task of strengthening civil society in the form of support for human rights education, capacity building among the country’s still-fledgling human rights education groups, and a highly popular program in desktop publishing and journalism education. III. CENTRAL & EASTERN EUROPE One recent dramatic development in the region was the September election in Slovakia, where a democratic coalition won a decisive election victory over the authoritarian government of Vladimir Meciar. The Endowment and its institutes played a leading role in assisting the democratic opposition. NED provided support to Civic Campaign ’98 (OK ’98), a nonpartisan, independent initiative of more than 40 NGOs that is credited with boosting voter turnout to record levels. Two NED grantees, the Foundation for Civil Society (NOS) and the Association in Support of Local Democracy, played a leading role in OK ’98. Other NED grantees, including the Permanent Commitee of the Civic Institute (SKOI), the Jan Hus Educational Foundation, and the Milan Simecka Foundation also conducted election-related programs that worked closely with OK ’98. NDI helped to create and support two important monitoring organizations that assisted OK ’98. MEMO ’98 monitored the pre-election coverage of Slovakia’s media and helped to level the playing field by exposing the pro-Meciar bias of Slovak State Television. OKA ’98 led a nationwide poll-watching program that helped to insure free and fair elections. IRI complemented this effort with an international election observation mission. CIPE’s two programs, with MESA 10 and the Center for Economic Development, exposed the corruption and economic mismanagement of the Meciar government. There is a large task ahead to help get Slovakia’s democratic and free-market transition back on track, and we are providing assistance for this purpose. As I mentioned previously, the Endowment continues to play a leading role in supporting innovative crossborder and regional programs, many using the experience, skills and materials of long-time Central European activists to assist democrats further east. Last year NED grantees in the Czech Republic assisted NGOs in Belarus and Central Asia; a Slovak grantee organized workshops for local media activists from the Balkans, and a grantee based in Hungary conducted conflict resolution training in the Caucasus. The majority of these “East to East” programs continue to be carried out by Polish grantees. The Institute for Democracy in Eastern Europe/Warsaw (IDEE/Warsaw) is one of only a very few foreign organizations working in Crimea. With NED funding it has organized 90 internships for Crimean Tatars and Ukrainians in Poland and assisted over 30 Tatar and Ukrainian NGOs in Crimea. In the Baltic States, two NED grantees, the Democracy Advancement Center and the Latvian Center for Human Rights and Ethnic Studies (LCHRES), carried out civic education and advocacy programs designed to promote tolerance and the integration of Latvia’s Russian minority. For its work, the LCHRES was awarded the prestigious U.S.-E.U. Civil Society and Democracy Award. In 1998, NED also began its first democracy-building program in Kaliningrad. NED has sought to address the complex and problematic nature of the democratic transition in Southeastern Europe with programs promoting the resolution of inter-ethnic conflict, greater political pluralism and economic reform, the development of independent media, and the strengthening of independent organizations necessary to consolidate civil society in the region. The republics of the former Yugoslavia, particularly the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (currently configured as Serbia, Montenegro, and Kosovo), remains a high priority. NED programs have helped ensure the survival of a number of independent media and helped break the stranglehold of government-dominated media in Serbia by strengthening influential sources of objective information. Endowment assistance has enabled newspapers, radio and TV stations to purchase desperately-needed supplies and equipment, including newsprint and broadcast transmitters. Past grantees have included the newspapers Nasa Borba, Vreme, and Danas, an independent TV station in eastern Serbia, TV Negotin, the prominent news agency BETA, and the important Belgrade station, Radio B-92. Due to the crackdown on democratic forces in Serbia, Montenegro is becoming more and more a haven for the Serbian independent sector. For example, several prominent independent media in Serbia have recently re-registered and begun publishing in Podgorica. The Association for Independent Electronic Media (ANEM) received Endowment funds to expand its high-quality news programming, which is broadcast throughout Serbia/Montenegro through ANEM’s wide network of affiliate radio stations. NED assistance has also helped Montenegro’s only independent daily newspaper continue providing timely and objective information on political, cultural, and economic developments in the republic and throughout former Yugoslavia. NED programs in Serbia also encourage the political participation of Serbia’s youth. With Endowment support, the Center for Democracy Foundation, a prominent Belgrade-based NGO, conducts a School for Democracy for secondary school and university students, facilitating the exchange of ideas and promoting cooperation among young activists committed to Serbia’s political and economic reform process. With NED funding, CIPE has enabled the European Movement of Serbia (EMS) and the G-17 group of independent economists to promote economic reform legislation and conduct research programs to identify barriers to private sector development at the local and federal levels. In Kosovo, Endowment support facilitated the monitoring work of the province’s most important human rights organization, the Council for Defense of Human Rights and Freedoms. NED funding has also enabled Kosovar pro-democratic forces to establish the province’s first independent think-tank focusing on policy development and the promotion of civil society. In Bosnia, the Endowment’s support for independent media provides unbiased information to the country’s beleaguered population. The Croatian-based STINA news agency received renewed NED funding last year to improve its information gathering capacity in the Croat-controlled area of Bosnia known as “Herceg-Bosna;” STINA expanded the only independent network of correspondents which exists in the statelet. The Helsinki Committee for Human Rights in Republika Srpska, a prominent human rights organization based in Bijeljina, received Endowment funding to monitor the human rights situation in the Serb Republic, disseminate otherwise unattainable information on human rights abuses to local residents and the international community, and educate residents of the Serb Republic on their basic human rights. NED continues to support the democratic transition in Romania. Endowment programs seek to counter negative trends such as political instability and the persistent influence of extremist parties on the far right and far left by developing the leadership and organizational skills of Romania’s non-governmental sector, and strengthening the institutions which facilitate cooperation and information exchange within the third sector. In Bulgaria, which has exhibited a stable democratic government, a modestly growing economy, good relations with its neighbors, and domestic inter-ethnic peace, NED assisted the Balkan Forum Civil Association in strengthening the capacity of citizens to participate in public affairs and effect changes at the local level. In addition, the Democracy Foundation received an Endowment grant to organize a series of Youth Forums that encouraged young people to participate in the political process and taught them about economic and political reform. To enhance the transparency of legislative processes and increase effective communication between citizens and their elected representatives, NDI continued to develop a constituency liaison program for parliamentarians in the Bulgarian National Assembly. IV. LATIN AMERICA & THE CARIBBEAN NED’s programs for the region are clustered in three areas: expanding political participation, promoting human rights and access to justice, and furthering the adoption of reforms intended to encourage government transparency and efficiency. Mexico, Cuba and Colombia remain countries of high priority. In Mexico, NED supports efforts by groups such as Equidad de Genero, ANCIFEM, Presencia Ciudadana, the Mexican Confederation of Employers, and the Citizen’s Movement for Democracy to provide channels for citizen participation in Mexico’s legislative process, including monitoring and promoting legislation affecting youth, business and women. In Cuba, the Endowment’s strategy has been to support and promote the diverse, incipient forms of civil society by providing independent sources of information to various groups and increasing awareness of their efforts outside of Cuba. For example, NED has supported publication of Encuentro de la Cultura Cubana, a quarterly humanities journal edited by esteemed Cuban writer Jesus Diaz, which receives written contributions from academic and cultural intellectuals on the island and is widely circulated inside and outside of Cuba. The Endowment also funds CubaNet, which supports independent journalists on the island and independent media associations by publishing and distributing their articles via the Internet. CubaNet also helps Cuban groups such as the recently-founded independent farmers’ cooperatives and independent workers’ unions connect with like-minded foreign and Cuban groups. The Endowment has funded a variety of programs to promote and support the peace process in Colombia, including efforts by the Colombian Commission of Jurists to promote international humanitarian law as a basis for initiating the peace negotiations and activities of the Corporación Viva la Ciudandanía to disseminate and refine proposals developed during the July 1998 Permanent Civil Society Assembly for Peace. In the face of continued political violence and human rights violations, the Endowment has continued to support efforts by Colombian organizations to promote legal access and a democratic culture based on tolerance and the fundamental respect for human rights. In Peru, Endowment funds supported a Peruvian NGO, Organización de Mujeres Indígenas de la Amazonía Peruana, and its efforts to foster the political participation of indigenous women as candidates and voters in the municipal elections of October 1998. The International Republican Institute (IRI), one of NED’s core institutes, worked with Fundación Participación Juvenil and Fundación Pensamiento y Acción to mobilize young voters for the 1998 congressional and presidential elections in Venezuela. In Mexico, NED has funded Equidad y Genero, a women’s organization, and Presencia Ciudadana, a youth movement, to develop and promote legislative proposals concerning the participation of women and youth. NED has also expanded its support for legal reform and access-to-justice programs. Justice of peace and conflict mediator training programs have been funded in Colombia, Peru and Venezuela. The Endowment also supports, through the Asociación Civil Primer Justicia, a Venezuelan television program that explains recent judicial reforms and how to gain access to the legal system. A variety of NED-supported programs promote government transparency and efficiency. Fundación Espiril, a Colombian NGO, has received Endowment support to promote the implementation of resolutions from the 1991 constitution that would allow citizen monitoring of municipal budgets and public services. In Venezuela, Centro al Servicio de la Acción Popular organized similar monitoring activities through a series of candidate forums with local politicians during the 1998 campaigns. IRI has supported a Nicaraguan NGO, Hagamos Democracia, and its efforts to improve constituency relations with Nicaragua’s national legislators. CIPE has supported legislative advocacy programs in Mexico, Haiti, Venezuela and Paraguay, to promote analysis and discussion of legislation concerning economic reform in those countries. The Endowment supports several anti-corruption initiatives in the region. NDI complemented its regional anti-corruption activities with a project in Paraguay that included a radio media campaign and a program to teach local officials how to combat corruption. In Ecuador, CIPE supports a comprehensive analysis of state corruption, covering current legal statutes, procurement procedures and customs, and recommends specific reform measures; recommendations by CIPE and the National Association of Entrepreneurs were recently incorporated into Ecuador’s national constitution. V. THE MIDDLE EAST & NORTHERN AFRICA Facing obstacles from both repressive government actions and anti-democratic opposition forces, NED-funded activists have sought to popularize democratic values, strengthen civil society, and protect press freedoms. In Algeria, where continued political unrest and tightening government restrictions make it increasingly difficult for NGOs to operate, one organization has succeeded in involving thousands of young Algerians throughout the country in peaceful and educational activities. Rally for Youth Action (RAJ) has carried out dozens of activities, ranging from peace rallies to human rights awareness campaigns. RAJ provides alienated and marginalized Algerian youth a vehicle for self-expression and a sense of inclusion in a civil society, even during times of severe violence and terror. In neighboring Morocco, the Endowment has supported groups promoting women’s political participation, the institutional capacity building of NGOs and publications on such topics as Islam, modernization, and democracy. One of these groups, NetRAC, is a newly-established network of several dozen civic organizations spread throughout the country. NetRAC seeks to strengthen the role and effectiveness of NGOs through information-sharing, the exchange of ideas and experiences, and stronger linkages. The publication Prologues, a literary review published in both Arabic and French, exposes Muslims to the plurality of ideas and concepts debated internationally, and prints articles on Islam, democracy and modernization. In response to Egypt‘s draft law imposing greater government control over associations, three NED grantees mobilized dozens of democratic activists, parliamentary deputies, researchers, and the media in an effort to confront the government and demand that civil associations be included in any discussion of the law. Similarly, in Jordan, the passage of new restrictive legislation targeting the freedom of the press and media prompted two NED grantees to organize an educational and outreach campaign bringing together journalists, parliamentarians, lawyers, and other activists to draw attention to the issue. These campaigns became important landmarks in holding back both governments from imposing further restrictions. Contributing to the struggle for accountability in Lebanon, the Lebanese Foundation for Permanent Civil Peace (LFPCP) received NED support for a project which seeks to make public services more accessible to citizens and strengthens accountability of public officials responsible for administering public services. Based on the Foundation’s recommendations, several public information offices were established in ministries and universities. NED support has also been provided to groups educating the Lebanese people about their rights and obligations as citizens and promoting an understanding of rights. Palestinian democrats in the West Bank and Gaza have persisted in their efforts to disseminate democratic values. One such NED-supported effort is the Palestinian Center for Helping to Resolve Community Disputes, established with assistance from Search for Common Ground. The Center conducts workshops and training sessions in the Gaza community to raise awareness of conflict resolution as a means for resolving problems and reducing violence. The Endowment also provides support to Palestinian youth and women’s organizations working to consolidate civil society. In Turkey, NED has supported initiatives which encourage respect for the rights of women and ethnic minorities, and promote better governance and democratization within political parties. A good example is the Helsinki Citizens’ Assembly, which encourages civic participation by raising the profile of NGOs throughout the country. VI. NEW INDEPENDENT STATES OF THE FORMER SOVIET UNION NED programs continue to support the emergence of civil society throughout the region, funding numerous human rights, rule of law, civic education, and NGO development projects in an effort to maintain a vibrant third sector. Last year the Endowment paid particular attention to the development of regional human rights groups, including NED-supported local groups in Nizhnii Tagil, Snezhinsk, Kazan, Irkutsk, Ekaterinburg and Saratov. The Endowment supported both a small grants program by the Human Rights Foundation for Civil Society for regional human rights groups, and efforts by the Union of Councils and the Moscow Helsinki Group to help establish regional human rights commissions in five provincial cities. Another major area of NED activity in the Russian Federation is civic education. NED provides renewed support for the Development Through Education Foundation in Togliatti, which has conducted a series of seminars for local civic education teachers. The Youth Center for Human Rights and Legal Culture also received additional Endowment funding to develop alternative human rights curricula for secondary schools, and the Russian Association of Civic Educators was awarded a grant to conduct the third annual Civics Olympiad. An assessment by an independent evaluator of six organizations in Russia that received support from NED to promote civic education during the period from 1994 to 1997 concluded,“It is already clear that many of these projects have begun to contribute to the growth of democratic values and practices among Russian educators andstudents. More specifically, the NED-supported grantees have pioneered new approaches to teaching about citizens’ legal rights and human rights, have created new teaching methods for cultivating attitudes of tolerance and mutual respect, and have developed extensive materials to teach citizens and students about the institutions and practices of Russian democracy.”We will be happy to share copies of the full evaluation with members of the subcommittee. ACILS continued to focus on Russia’s wage arrears, the widespread non-payment of wages, which increased by 54.6 percent from January 1 to August 1, 1998. ACILS programs taught Russian trade unions and workers how to protect their rights, get to the negotiating table, and address the serious issues confronting workers today, including trade union education, public interest legal clinics, and a thematic program devoted to resolving the wage arrears crisis. For the pivotal elections in Ukraine last March, NED programs supported several election initiatives: IRI sent a 15-member delegation to Ukraine to monitor the electoral, voting, and counting processes in 11 districts; the Kharkiv Center for Women’s Studies helped prepare women candidates for the elections; and the Ukrainian Congress Committee of America developed a series of commercials aimed at increasing voter participation among young people. NED funds also supported an innovative television program, Five on Five, which provided a forum for Ukrainian political parties to debate and advocate their views before a national audience. In Belarus, despite the regime’s flagrant attacks against the democratic opposition and virtually all elements of civil society, the country’s third sector continued to grow, and the Endowment, one of the leading funders of democracy projects there, provided considerable support to regional NGOs and the independent press. NED funds critical cross-border support to Belarusian democrats from neighboring East European countries. Belarusian journalists, for example, have received practical training through internships at Polish newspapers, publishing houses and radio and television stations. CIPE has teamed with the Independent Institute for Socio-Economic and Political Studies, a media research organization, and the Factory of Information Technologies, the producer of an economic television program, to challenge the Belarusian government’s monopoly on information and media. NED funding in the southern Caucasus region of Armenia, Georgia and Azerbaijan reflects the diverse concerns of this volatile region: the Azerbaijan Fund for Democracy Development has continued, through its educational and advocacy programs, to promote greater public awareness of democratic processes; the A.D. Sakharov Armenian Foundation for the Protection of Human Rights promotes human rights concerns by advocating, among other things, the legal rights of the country’s refugees; the INAM Center for Pluralism offers political education seminars to regional party activists in Azerbaijan; and the Association of Women with University Education fosters civic activism among Armenian women through its network of 22 regional centers. Work with young people, particularly through civic education programs, has been a major focus in Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan, Kyrgyzstan and Kazakstan. For example, the Ilim School fosters greater community and parental involvement in the Kazakstan educational system, while the Tashkent Public Education Center trains teachers who conduct civic education seminars in various parts of Uzbekistan. Environmental groups have been another focus of NED funding, particularly in countries with extremely repressive governments. By providing assistance to the Dashkovuz Ecological Club, NED has became one of the few Western organizations supporting programs in Turkmenistan. Leveraging our Resources Mr. Chairman, it is clear from this program summary just how vast are the needs of democrats around the world. The challenge for us is how to serve these growing needs with limited resources. One way in which we leverage our funding is by encouraging those with whom we work to supplement their NED grants with funding (including in-kind contributions) from other sources. This is often achieved by helping them cultivate contacts with the private sector and the growing number of counterpart democracy foundation organizations. I am pleased to report that in Fiscal Year 1998, our grantees raised over $.80 for every NED dollar, the highest amount since we began compiling these figures six years ago. Another way is to engage the private sector, including individuals, foundations, and the business community in the work of promoting democracy. This was encouraged by Mr. Lantos when I appeared before this subcommittee several years ago. I am pleased to report that with a generous contribution from one of our Board members, we have been able to hire a professional and to begin a modest development program. Developing private sources, of course, takes much patience, but we believe that the importance of engaging the private sector will allow us not only to leverage our public funding but also to promote outreach to new and important constituencies. For example, this past October, with a grant from the American Standard Companies, we were able to sponsor a pathbreaking conference in Bulgaria on government transparency and accountability, making use of the expertise provided by the Center for Liberal Strategies, an Endowment grantee. Not only did American Standard provide the funding, it also participated actively in the conference, demonstrating how a partnership between a government with reformist intentions, a think tank, and the corporate sector can help develop strategies to improve governing institutions. It was the challenge of how the Endowment can remain a dynamic center globally for the promotion of democracy within the context of limited resources that led our Board to adopt a new strategic plan two years ago. The plan that was adopted called for creative ways to make the best use of our resources: first, by developing regional and inter-regional networks to multiply the impact of individual grants; second, by encouraging the establishment of counterpart organizations to promote democracy; and third, by bringing together donor groups with one another and with potential grantees, democratic practitioners and scholars to coordinate work and to develop joint initiatives. The conference last week in New Delhi is the culmination of our effort to incorporate all of these strategies into our work. As the founding document of the World Movement for Democracy states,“The continued durability and dynamism of democracy globally requires a worldwide community of democrats–leading figures from politics, associational life, business, trade unions, the mass media, academia, and policy analysis organizations from all regions who are united by shared democratic values and a commitment to mutual support and solidarity.”[Founding Statement as Adopted by the New Delhi Conference, February 17, 1999]The most valuable aspect of the conference were the workshops which we hope will result in the creation of networks of NGO’s, democracy think tanks, anti-corruption groups, trade unionists, party organizers, business organizations, and democracy assistance foundations. These groups have already begun to develop their own joint initiatives that will all come under the umbrella of the world movement. One very exciting aspect of this work will be its use of communications technology to enable these networks both to work together effectively and to relate their work more broadly to the world movement. Indeed, it is the technological advances of the past decade and their remarkable diffusion to all parts of the world that has made the coordination required for such a global undertaking possible. At the Endowment, we have developed mostly with private funding a Democracy Resource Center (DemocracyNet) that we hope to expand to help meet the needs of this movement. The Center currently serves as an international clearinghouse for democracy, including information about the grants awarded by democracy assistance foundations. The website, www.ned.org, houses websites of numerous grassroots organizations with whom we have grant relationships, and as pointed out earlier, we have begun to train these organizations on how to set up their own websites. In an extraordinary presentation at the conference in New Delhi, one of the principals of Radio B-92, the independent station based in Belgrade, described how it has made use of the latest technology to effectively end the Milosevic regime’s information monopoly:“The Internet became vital to us when Radio B-92 was banned in December 1996. We had been reporting professionally on the peaceful mass demonstrations over local election fraud. This was why the authorities banned the station without even bothering to provide a legal justification. The ban lasted only 51 hours, primarily because we resorted to the Internet. “Even more important was the fact that we continued to produce our programs, which were distributed worldwide on the Internet in RealAudio format. Our colleagues from the VOA, the BBC, Radio Free Europe and Deutsche Welle picked up our signal and rebroadcast our news programs. In those few days more people than ever before were listening to our programs. This rendered the ban meaningless and couterproductive. Many newspapers reported that the Internet saved the demonstrations in Serbia.”Another conference participant, who serves as director of the Civic Development International Center and the director of the National Library of Georgia, shared his experiences in establishing a grass-roots Internet system in that country, which services its 2,000 non-governmental organizations. Technology clearly will have an increasing role to play in the furtherance of democracy, and the Endowment looks forward to helping democratic activists harness its great potential. Management Mr. Chairman, before I close I would like to say a word about our system for maintaining financial accountability. As you know, this subject has been raised by Members of Congress over the years, and we have always maintained how much of a priority it is for us. I am proud to report that the audit report of the State Department’s Inspector General (IG) for the years 1994-6 has found NO questioned costs related to the management of the Endowment’s grants. We believe that this is particularly noteworthy, considering that NED issued nearly 650 grants over this three-year period. One of the IG’s two recommendations has already been implemented by the Endowment and the other is currently being implemented. Significantly, the IG has requested copies of NED’s internal control procedures to be used as a model for other grant-making organizations to follow. In addition, the Association of Private Volunteer Organization Financial Managers requested that the Endowment present its procedures at a workshop attended by 60 financial managers. While we are delighted that the hard work we have put into this function is being recognized by others, we know how important it is that the progress we have made be maintained, and intend to keep you informed about our grant management procedures. In conclusion, the Endowment has a large agenda ahead of it, managing a growing grants program and helping to leverage the assistance we provide by linking those who receive it with those who are working in one way or another to promote and strengthen democracy. We will continue to look to the Congress, and especially the subcommittee, for your ideas as well as your support, and look forward to maintaining this productive relationship. Thank you."John McCain was one of the great freedom fighters of all time," said NED President...The National Endowment for Democracy (NED) will honor...Read Carl Gershman's opening remarks at IRI's Democracy...The National Endowment for Democracy (NED) welcomes the announcement today that...
#Civic Education and Democracy: The NED Experience#December 14, 1998#Remarks by Carl Gershman, PresidentThe National Endowment for DemocracySeoul, South KoreaRemarks given at the “Civic Education and Democracy in South Korea” Conference, December 14, 1999I want to congratulate the Korea Council of Civic Movements and the Friedrich Naumann Stiftung for taking the initiative to organize this timely conference on “Civic Education and Democracy in South Korea.” This is a critical moment in South Korea’s transition to democracy. Though the country is going through a difficult period of economic adjustment and renewal, it has an historic opportunity to move forward toward a fully consolidated democratic polity. Its success in doing so will obviously depend upon the restoration of economic growth and continued political stability, both foremost national priorities that demand urgent attention. Of no less importance, though, is the long-term goal of developing a vigorous democratic culture deeply rooted in the values of democracy and freedom. This depends upon the education of a democratic citizenry, a goal that can be accomplished only if the method and content of education itself are imbued with the values of democracy.In its founding “Statement of Principles and Objectives,” drafted fifteen years ago, the National Endowment for Democracy (NED) placed education for democracy among its highest priorities. “Democratic political institutions,” the statement read, “will not long endure unless they are buttressed by a strong civic culture and supported by a populace that is committed to such ideals as the rule of law, individual liberty, freedom of religion, free and open debate, majority rule, and protection of the rights of minorities. Nor will the demise of dictatorships give birth to genuine and lasting democracy where the citizenry has not already begun to understand and appreciate democratic values.”Democracy, after all, means self-government. If people are to rule themselves and not need the direction and discipline of a master, they must be able to make intelligent and informed choices. They must also be aware of their social environment and be prepared to agree, disagree, and respectfully interact with other citizens. “A democracy,” the great American philosopher John Dewey once wrote, “is more than a form of government; it is primarily a mode of associated living, of conjoint communicated experience.” Education in a democracy must prepare people not only to be knowledgeable about their society and able to contribute productively to its development, but also to participate jointly with others in the common enterprise of self-government and problem-solving.In preparing for this conference, I leafed through an old copy of Dewey’s Democracy and Education which I had read many years earlier as a graduate student. Written at the beginning of the twentieth century, this classic work has lost none of its power and freshness and should find a new audience today in countries, like Korea, that are undergoing the process of democratization. Its essential message is that “education is not an affair of ‘telling’ and being told, but an active and constructive process” in which knowing and doing are closely linked. Education enables the individual “to escape from the limitations of the social group in which he was born, and to come into living contact with a broader environment.” But it can succeed only if it is “an outgrowth of existing conditions” and is “founded upon the intrinsic activities and needs (including original instincts and acquired habits) of the given individual to be educated.” The education of an individual is like the growth of a plant — it starts from the roots.In fact, this is just a matter of common sense. If we want to move forward, we have to start from where we are, not from where we or others would like us to be. Dewey has added the notion that we learn from doing (“we get used to things by first using them,” he wrote), from interacting, and from constantly readjusting to new the situations produced by these varied interactions.The development of democracy in a country, like the education of an individual, also proceeds gradually, one step at a time. In this respect, those who think that democracy can be achieved through a “great leap” are as mistaken as those who think it cannot be achieved at all in the absence of certain preconditions, be they economic or social. Both overlook the need to base action, as Dewey wrote, “upon a consideration of what is already going on; upon the resources and difficulties of the situation.” Rather than see democracy as a distant goal or as a Western idea unsuited to non-Western cultures, it’s much more practical to start by tackling real problems related to establishing a democratic system and to grow and learn by solving them. In this way, to quote Dewey once again, “Every end becomes a means of carrying activity further as soon as it is achieved.”Such pragmatism, and the recognition that democratization is a gradual process, have always informed the NED’s approach to civic education, regardless of the country or region involved. In all cases — and in this paper I review our programs in Africa, Latin America, Eastern Europe, and Russia — the programs have grown out of the specific circumstances and possibilities inherent in the situation that has prevailed in a country at a particular moment.AfricaIn Africa, for example, civic education only became possible with the promulgation in 1986 of the African Charter on Human and Peoples’ Rights. Open discussion of democracy and politics was dangerous under the dictatorial governments that prevailed in Africa at that time. Nonetheless, by talking about human rights within the framework provided by the Charter (which had been signed by nearly all African governments), civic groups in many African countries were able to address issues such as the rule of law and freedom of speech and assembly.Thus, in 1988 the Endowment made a grant to the Uganda Human Rights Activists (UHRA), one of the first African groups to take advantage of the political space created by the Charter. With NED support, UHRA conducted human rights monitoring and was able to carry out some civic education through training workshops and a newsletter. Other early human rights groups were the Mouvement Burkinabe des Droits de L’Homme et du Peuples in Burkina Faso and the Civil Liberties Organization in Nigeria. The Charter and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights have since been translated into scores of African languages, and they continue to serve as the basis for most education programs dealing with civil and political rights in Africa.A second important foundation for civic education in Africa has been the enormous increase in the number of elections on the continent following the fall of communism in Eastern Europe in 1989. Beginning with the first elections in Benin, Namibia, Congo-Brazzaville, Cape Verde, Sao Tome, and Zambia, multi-party elections soon spread to nearly every country on the continent. Even where these elections were not free and fair, they served as a mobilizing vehicle for education about democratic rights. The NED was able to help groups such as the Benin-based Study and Research Group on Democracy and Development (GERDDES), a regional civic organization that conducted workshops and seminars about democracy and political parties, the meaning of the vote, transparency, the role of the military and the legislature, and many other issues that went beyond basic human rights.In order to prepare for elections, civic education programs had to be conducted on a massive scale, often with international assistance and the acquiescence and cooperation of the local government. Opinion polls conducted in South Africa, Congo (Zaire), and Liberia show evidence of rising levels of civic consciousness, attributable largely to the civic education efforts and increased political participation that have occurred over the last several years in the context of elections. Similarly, a study by GERDDES of several West African countries shows strong support for the new freedoms brought by democracy, even where the performance of the elected governments has been disappointing. Civic education, whether carried out directly through formal programs or through the newly assertive African press, has permanently altered the political discourse in Africa and limited the extent to which governments that still lack a strong commitment to democracy can resist continuing demands for more reform.Looking to the future of civic education in Africa, much depends on the development of radio, the medium that reaches the largest audiences. Independent stations, especially smaller community-based stations, not only provide consciousness-raising news reports, but also information on people’s rights and responsibilities, politics, health, and the economy. Although such stations are often financially self-sustaining, many have to contend with government suppression or over-regulation, competition from well-funded international networks, and a weak advertising base. They need more help, and the NED will continue to look for strategic ways to do so.One example is our support for Radio Anfani in Niger, whose director, Gremah Boucar, recently won the International Press Freedom Award of the Committee to Protect Journalists for his resistance to government repression. The station has a club with 36,000 members, each of whom pays $1 a year (a substantial sum in a country where the annual per capita income is $200) for the right to take part in “walk-in” programs — a kind of community meeting where listeners gather at a local station to express their views on all issues of concern, including the content of the station’s programming.Latin AmericaNot surprisingly, the social and political context for civic education is different in Latin America, where human rights have been recognized and elections conducted for many decades. Here civic education programs are generally targeted at specific problems, such as increasing awareness of how citizens can deal with corruption, strengthening participation in local government, or teaching people how to resolve conflicts peacefully. The fact that such programs are means to an end which often has more to do with governance than education does not mean they are not forms of civic education. As Dewey suggested, people learn from doing, and they are far more likely to absorb lessons about democracy through such programs than by listening to a lecture on democracy that does not relate to the concrete circumstances of their lives.Here are a few examples of such programs in Latin America:Eastern EuropeEastern Europe has presented NED with still a different circumstance and challenge. During the 1980s, when communism still existed, the most that could be done was to assist educational activities conducted by independent groups such as the Committees for Education, Culture and Research (OKNO) in Poland, underground publishers, and a large number of “samizdat” journals and books. The fall of communism obviously created vast new opportunities for civic education, but ironically it also presented civic educators with a new obstacle — the association of civic education with earlier communist programs of indoctrination.Civic education would be rejected by the people if it appeared as a new form of indoctrination with different objectives. It could gain legitimacy only as an authentic expression of national identity which engaged the newly liberated peoples’ hopes for the future. In Poland, the problem was solved by creating a new civic education framework that synthesized three different elements: 1) the pre-communist Polish tradition of civic education that dated back to the period of the May 1791 constitution and the twenty years between the two world wars; 2) the Polish need to fashion a modern democracy fully integrated into Europe and the democratic world; and 3) the social and educational experience of countries with a long tradition of democracy, in particular the United States.The last element was provided by the Mershon Center of Ohio State University which, with NED support, joined with the Center for Citizenship Education in Warsaw to create the Education for Democratic Citizenship Program (EDCP). The program produced several western-style curricula and accompanying materials, such as textbooks, resource guides, and student workbooks, that today are being used in over 800 Polish secondary schools. A NED grant also helped the Mershon Center work with Polish educators to establish the Foundation for Citizen Education which is Poland’s leading civic education organization.One of the unique aspects of NED-supported civic education programs in Central Europe and the former Soviet Union (NIS) has been so-called “East to East” work in which civic educators from Poland and other democracies in the region help their counterparts in countries further to the East where democracy is less advanced. Much of this work is carried out through the Foundation for Education for Democracy (FED) which was established with NED assistance by Poland’s Teachers Solidarity in cooperation with the American Federation of Teachers (AFT). The FED has spawned counterpart civic education organizations in Lithuania, Latvia, and Estonia and has conducted hundreds of workshops training teachers, trade unionists, student activists, and leaders of nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) in Russia, Ukraine, Belarus, the Central Asian countries, and even as far east as Mongolia. Over sixty “how-to” brochures and hundreds of pages of civic education materials have been produced in Russian and the other languages of the region, including Crimean Tartar, Kyrgyz, Uzbek, and Mongolian.Among the other outgrowths of these initiatives have been the Centers for Pluralism, which links hundreds of democracy-building NGOs in fifteen East European and NIS countries, and the AFT’s clearinghouse for civic education materials and its world-wide database of civic education practitioners. Other NED grants have supported ethnic and minority rights education programs and, most recently, voter education programs in Slovakia where voters replaced the authoritarian government of Vladimir Meciar with a prodemocracy coalition.RussiaFinally, I would like to say a brief word about NED’s efforts to support Russian democracy through civic education. In this regard, I would like to refer you to a perceptive evaluation of six NED-supported civic education projects in Russia that has just been produced by Mark S. Johnson, a specialist on Russian education who teaches history at Colorado College in the United States. The six projects are:Some of the conclusions of the evaluator are worth noting. I’m proud to say that he considered NED’s strategy of taking risks on smaller, more innovative organizations “strikingly successful.” He also pointed out that the five indigenous projects “initiated and developed by Russian activists and educators” were “distinctly more successful” than the one project (ECHO) initiated by American activists and consultants. The five indigenous programs were deemed especially effective in creatively adapting international experience or foreign models to Russian circumstances and integrating this material into humanistic and democratic elements drawn from the Russian tradition. Finally, the most successful and dynamic organizations were those most open to staff participation and internal democracy and most able to connect with rank-and-file teachers and grassroots activists.According to the evaluator, the Russian civic educators whose efforts he reviewed “have done heroic work under incredibly difficult circumstances.” These circumstances have included “growing inequality, rampant corruption, criminality, and the gross manipulation of public power and ‘democratic’ rhetoric for private gain.” On top of this, at the time of the evaluation Russia was in the midst of a catastrophic economic crisis that left teachers with wages unpaid and their pensions bankrupted, causing the brightest teachers to leave the field and producing massive staff vacancies in the schools.The fact that these programs were able to succeed in this horrific context is something of a miracle which speaks to the incredible strength of character and devotion of the Russians involved. Nonetheless, the evaluator said that the Russian civic educators had to do even more to “contribute to the broader struggle for Russian democracy” by focussing on the rights of teachers to introduce new materials and on the democratization of school governance and instructional methodology, as well as by mobilizing networks of volunteers and teacher activists to be more active in their communities. Only by “invigorating civic engagement and civic activism,” he wrote, can they even begin to address Russia’s enormous problems.I read this report soon after Galina Starovoitova was assassinated in St. Petersburg. She was a courageous and decent person, a great democrat and a dear friend. It is possible to despair over her death and the terrible fact, as reported in the American press, that the modern Russian use of the English word “killer” today matter-of-factly describes a job like any other.But there is another side to Russia. For all the people who are corrupt, venal, and violent, there are others who are planting the seeds for a different future. Galina Starovoitova was not alone, and we owe it to her memory and Russia’s future to do whatever we can to help Russian civic educators and others who are trying to nurture there a new culture of pluralism and democracy.It is as true in Korea as it is in Russia that civic education is about the future. Let me close on that note with another thought from John Dewey. “While all thinking results in knowledge,” he wrote, “ultimately the value of knowledge is subordinate to its use in thinking. For we live not in a settled and finished world, but in one which is going on, and where our main task is prospective, and where retrospect and all knowledge as distinct from thought is retrospect –is of value in the solidity, security, and fertility it affords our dealings with the future.” So let us work together, in Korea and beyond, to build a brighter future for us all.Apr 30, 2015Forum Launches New Website: "Resurgent Dictatorship: The...In his presentation, Leonid Gozman demonstrated how...In order to contribute to the spread of correct information...The International Forum for Democratic Studies at The National Endowment for...
#President Ronald Reagan’s Remarks at a White House Ceremony Inaugurating the National Endowment for Democracy#December 16, 1983#Good morning and welcome. It’s good to have you all here to help celebrate the launching of a program with a vision and a noble purpose.The National Endowment for Democracy is, just as we’ve been told, more than bipartisan; it’s a genuine partnership of Republicans and Democrats, of labor and business, conservatives and liberals, and of the executive and legislative branches of government.It’s such a worthwhile, important initiative that I’m tempted to ask: Why hasn’t it been done before? Well, we’re doing it now, and it’s largely because of the hard work of good people. Chuck Manatt, Frank Fahrenkopf, Dante Fascell, Bill Brock, Lane Kirkland, Mike Samuels, you have my heartfelt thanks and warmest congratulations. And a special thank you to our Vice President, who has been carrying this message for quite some time now on missions here and there throughout the world.The establishment of the National Endowment goes right to the heart of America’s faith in democratic ideals and institutions. It offers hope to people everywhere. Last year in London I spoke of the need and obligation to assist democratic development. My hope then was that America would make clear to those who cherish democracy throughout the world that we mean what we say.What had been preying on my mind that prompted me to say that in that speech to the Parliament was that in my lifetime, my adult lifetime, the world has been beset by “-isms”. And we remember one of those -isms that plunged us into a war. And it suddenly dawned on me that we, with this system that so apparently works and is successful, have just assumed that the people would look at it and see that it was the way to go. And then I realized, but all those -isms, they also are missionaries for their cause, and they’re out worldwide trying to sell it. And I just decided that this nation, with its heritage of Yankee traders, we ought to do a little selling of the principles of democracy.Speaking out for human rights and individual liberty and for the rule of law and the peaceful reconciliation of differences, for democratic values and principles, is good and right. But it’s not just good enough. We must work hard for democracy and freedom, and that means putting our resources — organizations, sweat, and dollars — behind a long-term program.Well, the hope is now a reality. The National Endowment for Democracy, a private, nonprofit corporation funded by the Congress, will be the centerpiece of this effort. All Americans can be proud of this initiative and the congressional action which made it possible.By engaging the energies of our major political parties, of labor, business, and other groups, such as the academic community, the forces of democracy will be strengthened wherever they may be. They’ll have a caring group of Americans to go to, to get assistance from, advice, and cooperation.This program will not be hidden in shadows. It’ll stand proudly in the spotlight, and that’s where it belongs. We can and should be proud of our message of democracy. Democracies respect individual liberties and human rights. They respect freedom of expression, political participation, and peaceful cooperation. Governments which serve their citizens encourage spiritual and economic vitality. And we will not be shy in offering this message of hope.Through the National Endowment, the private sector will promote exchanges between the American people and democratic groups abroad. It’ll stimulate participation in democratic training programs and institution building overseas. The Endowment will work closely with those abroad who seek to chart a democratic course, and all this work will be sensitive to the needs of individual groups and institutions. And, of course, it will be consistent with our own national interests.The National Endowment will let the people at the grassroots, who make our democracy work, help build it elsewhere. And the organizations that are now being formed by the Republican and Democratic parties and by labor and business will be the key to success. There’ll also be expressions of what’s best and most valuable in American public life.Now, we’re not naive. We’re not trying to create imitations of the American system around the world. There’s no simple cookbook recipe for political development that is right for all people, and there’s no timetable. While democratic principles and basic institutions are universal, democratic development must take into account historic, cultural, and social conditions.Each nation, each movement will find its own route. And, in the process, we’ll learn much of value for ourselves. Patience and respect for different political and cultural traditions will be the hallmark of our effort. But the combination of our ideas is healthy. And it’s in this spirit that the National Endowment reaches out to people everywhere — and will reach out to those who can make a difference now and to those who will guide the destiny of their people in the future.Much depends on us. But we can be confident that the tide of history is a freedom tide. That’s the real message of our time. And it may be just the reason why those who don’t like to hear the truth are so worried.The nine countries which joined the United Nations since 1978 are democracies. In Africa, important states like Nigeria and Senegal have entered fully into the community of democratic states. In our hemisphere, 27 out of 35 countries are democracies now, or in transition. And just last week, Argentina completed its dramatic return, with the inauguration of President Alfonsin.Yes, beyond the world’s troublespots lies a deeper, more positive, and hopeful trend. The march of democracy and the National Endowment will be a part of it. Of course, any undertaking will ultimately be judged by the challenges it accepts and those that it overcomes. All of you in this room have good reason to be proud. You’ve accepted a worthy challenge.The National Endowment for Democracy can make lasting and important contributions. It’s up to all of us to make it happen, to harness the resources, experience, and wisdom of both the public and the private sectors. It’s up to us to broaden our efforts, make them grow. And with the people in this room, I know we can, and I know we will.So, again, thank you, good luck, and God bless all of you.Note: The President spoke at 11:39 a.m. in Room 450 of the Old Executive Office Building. Among those present in the audience were the members of the board of directors of the Endowment.Thomas Carothers is the vice president for studies...When Does U.S. Democracy Assistance Work?Watch Video...The July 2018 "quick hits" newsletter provides updates...As a member of the international team of lawyers prosecuting...Mr. Alimure Ali is a nonprofit organization practitioner with over eight years...
