The Big Question: What is the Biggest Impediment to Democratic Governance in Sub-Saharan Africa?#August 6, 2019#To further explore issues raised in the Journal of Democracy’s July 2019 cluster of articles on “Aspirations and Realities in Africa,” the International Forum for Democratic Studies asked five leading experts their opinion on the single biggest challenge to good governance in sub-Saharan Africa. (Their answers have been edited for length and clarity, and do not necessarily reflect the views of the National Endowment for Democracy.) Nana Ama Agyemang Asante is co-host of the “Citi Breakfast Show” (CBS), a highly popular, public-interest radio show broadcast daily on the Accra-based station Citi FM. She is also deputy online editor of Citi FM’s news website, www.citifmonline.com, supervising the publication of timely stories and helping to direct national attention toward a range of social issues, including minority rights. Follow her on Twitter @JustNanaAma. Despite the growth of democracy and the creation of numerous anti-corruption institutions, corruption continues to undermine governance processes across the African continent. It is estimated that Africa annually loses over $50 billion through illicit flows and $148 billion through corruption. Ghana alone loses about GhC 13.5 billion through corruption, with many citizens having to pay bribes before accessing basic public services. In fact, the 2018 Global Corruption Barometer found that more than one in four people on the continent paid bribes for public services. Various studies show that this pervasive corruption is due to the nature of politics, weak institutions, and the lack of campaign finance laws. Most countries operate a system where political parties in power reward supporters with state resources and contracts.The consequences of widespread corruption is evident in the poor delivery of social services, high levels of poverty and unemployment, and other problems. Corruption also threatens stability and undermines institutions and the rule of law, making it difficult for the people to profit from the dividends of democracy. A recent Afrobarometer survey found that most Africans support democracy but are dissatisfied with the performance of their governments. The dissatisfaction stems from the failure of African governments to deliver social and economic goods.Given that democracy is on the decline elsewhere in the world due to poor governance, African governments will have to vigorously address corruption by strengthening anti-corruption institutions and reforming judiciaries and other oversight institutions.Corruption also threatens stability and undermines institutions and the rule of law, making it difficult for the people to profit from the dividends of democracy.– Nana Ama Agyemang Asante, Citi FMEmmanuel Gyimah-Boadi is co-founder and Executive Director of Afrobarometer, a pan-African survey research project that tracks public opinion on political, economic, and social developments in African countries. He is also a co-founder and former Executive Director of the Ghana Center for Democratic Development (CDD-Ghana), an independent, non- partisan, and non-profit policy research and advocacy group on democratic governance. Read his July 2019 Journal of Democracy article on “Aspirations and Realities in Africa: Democratic Delivery Falls Short,” and follow him on Twitter @gyimahboadi.Abundant anecdotal and empirical evidence indicates strong and deepening popular demand for the type of governance that features transparency, accountability, the rule of law, and term-limited presidencies. Daily developments on the streets, in the courts, and on social media across Africa point to the presence of a large pool of citizens and citizen groups determined to protect the democratic governance gains of the past twenty years and work towards democratic consolidation. However, many of the continent’s incumbent presidents and political parties do their best to thwart these popular aspirations. Unwilling to relinquish authoritarian control, they block reforms that would curb permissive constitutional arrangements and strengthen institutional checks and balances; and some launch efforts to jettison or weaken constitutional limits on presidential tenure. African political leaders are, therefore, without doubt, the biggest impediment to democratic governance on the continent.These good governance-resisting elites are significantly enabled by national constitutions bereft of constitutionalism and a reliance on economic and symbolic power in the presidency and executive branch of government, and by domestic political economies characterized by government dominance over the formal economy and a weak private sector (which confers enormous patronage dispensation advantages on the president and ruling party, fueling their state and democracy “capture” schemes). Additionally, today’s external environment abets African domestic elites’ determination to frustrate their citizens’ aspirations for democratic governance. The continent’s regional institutions and leadership display ambiguity in the enforcement of the democratic governance standards contained in their own charters. Western nations have retreated from emphasizing democratic governance principles in their development assistance programs (in favor of geostrategic interests such as competing against China, stemming migration, and fighting terrorism). And China and other emerging global powers are vigorously courting African leaders by providing them with military and development assistance without political reform “conditionalities.”These good governance-resisting elites are significantly enabled by national constitutions bereft of constitutionalism and a reliance on economic and symbolic power in the presidency and executive branch of government.– Emmanuel Gyimah-Boadi, AfrobarometerAyo Obe is a legal practitioner and a partner in the Lagos-based law firm Ogunsola Shonibare. She chairs the Board of Trustees of the Gorée Institute and is a trustee of the Brussels-based International Crisis Group. She also served as the Chairperson of the Steering Committee of the World Movement for Democracy. Read her July 2019 Journal of Democracy article on “Aspirations and Realities in Africa: Nigeria’s Emerging Two-Party System?” and follow her on Twitter @naijama. It is challenging to list a single impediment to good governance in sub-Saharan Africa. The need for better levels of transparency, integrity, and accountability among African political leaders is fairly universal across the continent. In Nigeria and other places, serious, targeted investment in infrastructure, especially electricity and rail transport, as well as in meaningful, modern, and compulsory primary education for children, would improve the standards of living among African publics. Finally, security agencies dedicated to the safety and security of citizens, rather than to the survival of the government in power, are key to civic life across the continent.The need for better levels of transparency, integrity, and accountability among African political leaders is fairly universal across the continent.– Ayo Obe, Ogunsola ShonibareJon Temin is the director of the Africa program at Freedom House, overseeing the organization’s efforts to advance democracy and human rights across the continent. From 2014 to 2017, he was a member of the Departments of State’s Policy Planning Staff, providing strategic guidance and long-term thinking to the secretary on Africa issues. Follow him on Twitter @JonTemin and read his July 2019 Journal of Democracy article on “Aspirations and Realities in Africa: Ethiopia’s Quiet Revolution” (with Yoseph Badwaza).Minimal accountability of government officials to African citizens impedes good governance more than any other single factor. This is far from unique to Africa, but is pronounced in some countries on the continent, especially where government leaders do not derive their legitimacy from popular support.  Instead, some earned their positions through force and the legacy of rebellion, by ascending within a dominant political party, or through elections of questionable legitimacy. Because they did not come to office on the back of popular support, and once in office do not depend on popular support—especially when they have a monopoly on the use of force and engage in grand corruption—leaders feel little pressure to respond to citizen demands and adapt to public sentiment. The lack, in many countries, of a functional and broad tax system (especially where government revenues are derived largely from natural resources) compounds this problem: citizens do not feel bought-in to government, because they pay little into government and get little out of it, while leaders do not need their tax payments to fill state coffers.  All of this leads citizens to reduce their expectations of government, leaving some resigned to the notion that government will rarely deliver on their demands, and that it is not accountable to them.The good news, however, is that these dynamics are changing.  Peaceful mass protests in Africa are accelerating, and in some cases, such as Sudan, leading to change at the top. Citizens are demanding more accountability from their leaders, including through transparency and service delivery.  As these expectations change, and leaders see some of their counterparts forced from office, pressure on governments to deliver results will grow.Because they did not come to office on the back of popular support, and once in office do not depend on popular support—especially when they have a monopoly on the use of force and engage in grand corruption—leaders feel little pressure to respond to citizen demands and adapt to public sentiment.– Jon Temin, Freedom HouseEmeka Umejei is a visiting assistant professor of communication and multimedia design at the American University of Nigeria. He has written extensively on Chinese media and Chinese digital infrastructure in Africa, and currently is completing a book on Chinese media in Africa. Follow him on Twitter @emekaumejei.Chinese party-state influence over African media development is among the biggest impediments to good governance. There are largely three components of China’s Belt and Road Initiative: economic, digital infrastructure, and the media. The economic aspect encompasses trade, investment, and loans; the Digital Silk Road is a digital component through which the Chinese government seeks to expand its digital footprint in Africa; and the Belt and Road News Network (BRNN) is a partnership between China’s state-led media organizations and more than 182 media organizations in 86 countries, including several in Africa.While the first component has attracted much attention, the other two have been treated more lightly. Because China’s digital infrastructure could bring about an authoritarian model of the internet that encourages autocratic governance in Africa, it is important for African political actors to consider the long-term impact of this infrastructure. For instance, what would become of Chinese digital infrastructure such as Huawei’s 5G network if the internet diverges into American and Chinese versions, or into American, Chinese, and Russian versions? In addition, if the expansion of Chinese media into Africa has raised a cause for concern, the BRNN is more alarming. The BRNN represents China’s first attempt at reinforcing the Chinese media model through a partnership with African media organizations. Africans are more likely to believe their own media organizations when they deliver the CCP’s propaganda than when Chinese media does. The combined effect of China’s digital infrastructure and the BRNN would be far-reaching in Africa. This would mean that issues such as democracy, freedom of expression, human rights and political pluralism may be curtailed on the continent, resulting in the emergence or consolidation of African leaders that are not responsible to their electorates.Because China’s digital infrastructure could bring about an authoritarian model of the internet that encourages autocratic governance in Africa, it is important for African political actors to consider the long-term impact of this infrastructure.– Emeka Umejei, American University of NigeriaA Q&A discussion with George Sarpong on defending media freedom during Ghana’s digital migration.A Q&A discussion with Rafael Marques de Morais on kleptocracy in Angola.Two Power 3.0 blog posts by Emeka Umejei: “The Imitation Game: Will China’s Investments Reshape Africa’s Internet?” and “Will China’s Media Influence African Democracies?”“Democratic Activism and the Battle Against Modern Kleptocracy,” a Power 3.0 blog post by Dave Peterson. Image Credit: Arthimedes / Shutterstock.com A number of Latin American countries are in the midst of turmoil. Brazil has...The April 2018 edition of the Forum newsletter explores...The Washington Post editorial board discussed the findings...
International Forum for Democratic Studies June 2019 Newsletter#July 1, 2019#The first working paper in the series, authored by Kurt Bassuener and entitled “Pushing on an Open Door: Foreign Authoritarian Influence in the Western Balkans,” explores the growing influence of Russia, China, Turkey, and the Gulf States in the Western Balkans, particularly in the media sphere.The second working paper, “To Catch a Kleptocrat: Lessons Learned from the Bien Mal Acquis Trials in France” by Tutu Alicante, captures the story of how Equatoguinean Vice President Teodoro Obiang was convicted of kleptocracy-related offenses in France. It draws insight from this example to offer lessons for civil society organizations interested in using strategic litigation to combat transnational kleptocracy.Similar content can be viewed on the Forum’s blog, Power 3.0: Understanding Modern Authoritarian Influence, and its related podcast. “The Biens Mal Acquis case demonstrates that collaboration among local and international civil society organizations in all aspects of the effort—media and awareness raising, investigation, advocacy, and the litigation itself—is critical to winning the struggle against kleptocracy.”  The April 2019 issue of the Journal of Democracy features a set of five articles by activists and scholars reflecting on implications of the 1989 protests in Tiananmen Square for China today. The Journal also celebrates the launch of its new website.On June 5, NED Vice President for Studies and Analysis Christopher Walker testified before the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations on ways China is eroding and corrupting democratic standards around the world.On April 26, the International Forum co-hosted an event with the Council of the Americas and Americas Quarterly to discuss China’s new agenda for engagement in the Americas, particularly in the region’s media, education, and ideas sphere.On June 4, the International Forum’s Senior Director Shanthi Kalathil testified before the Congressional-Executive Commission on China and the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission on the Chinese party-state’s manipulation of the information space.Melissa Aten of the International Forum for Democratic Studies spoke with Ilya Lozovsky about OCCRP’s recent “Troika Laundromat” investigation and the vital role collaborative journalism played in combatting transnational kleptocracy.Ronald J. Deibert discusses the dramatic shift in perceptions of social media and how a more problematic underside of social media has come into view that may have the effect of fueling authoritarianism.In their recent blog post, Eileen Donahoe and Megan MacDuffee Metzer argue that a shared global framework is needed to ensure that artificial intelligence is developed and applied in ways that respect human dignity and democratic accountability.On June 11, Reagan-Fascell Fellow Joshua Olufemi highlighted the progress and persistent challenges in leveraging data for good governance, and provided recommendations on how expand the use of data for democracy in Nigeria.“In an era of globalization, the struggle over fundamental values is being waged in every region and across diverse polities. How this battle plays out will define the character of the world we live in.”   Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellow Oludotun Babayemi examined...Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellow Martin Krygier critiqued existing ways of thinking...
Defenders of Human and Religious Rights in China to Receive 2019 Democracy Award on 30th Anniversary of Tiananmen Massacre#May 21, 2019#National Endowment for Democracy to Honor Uyghur, Tibetan, and Chinese Christian ActivistsThe National Endowment for Democracy (NED) will honor defenders of human and religious rights in China with its 2019 Democracy Award at a June 4th ceremony in the U.S. Capitol, exactly 30 years after the massacre of pro-democracy demonstrators in Beijing in 1989. The ceremony will take place from 5:00 -7:00 pm in room HC-5 of the Capitol. Confirmed speakers include House Republican Conference Chair Rep. Elizabeth Cheney (R-WY), Rep. Joaquin Castro (D-TX), and Rep. Mike McCaul (R-TX). Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi will also address the event.The 2019 Democracy Award Honorees are:See brief descriptions of each organization and their representatives at the end of this release.The Chinese Communist Party (CCP) has been practicing and perfecting its tools to erase identity and dissent, largely with impunity within its claimed borders. Marginalized groups, such as religious and ethnic minorities, have been the primary target for the CCP’s repression, and they have been on the front lines of contestation.“The 2019 Democracy Award honors three groups who are working at the forefront of one of the most important human rights struggles of our time,” said NED president Carl Gershman. “We have seen the reports of millions of Uyghurs imprisoned in China’s internment camps and the abuses that are carried out there,” said Gershman. “We know the history of China’s nearly 70 years of brutal repression in Tibet; and we are now seeing the increased persecution of Christians and the destruction of churches as part of an all-out campaign against religion in China. We honor these three groups that are fighting back against the CCP’s systematic crackdown aimed at erasing their identities and history, and for their resilient efforts to preserve their freedom of belief, their language, their culture, and their most basic rights.”The Endowment will also host a conference on June 3, “China’s Repression Model: Tiananmen, Today, Tomorrow,” from 12:00 – 2:30 pm at its office at 1025 F St, NW, 8th floor, Washington, DC 20004. The agenda features opening remarks by U.S. Ambassador-at-Large for International Religious Freedom Sam Brownback and U.S. Senator Robert Menendez (D-NJ), ranking member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. One panel will feature a moderated conversation with the honorees, Dolkun Isa, Lhadon Tethong, and Bob Fu. A second panel about China’s export of repressive tactics and technology and activists’ efforts to resist the encroachment of authoritarian norms will feature expert analysis by Xiao Qiang of China Digital Times, Sophie Richardson of Human Rights Watch, and the Taiwanese civic tech activist known as Ttcat.These events are open to the media. Credentialed journalists must register in advance with NED public affairs by email: press@ned.org.The National Endowment for Democracy is a private, nonprofit, grant-making organization created in 1983 to strengthen democratic institutions around the world. It is active in more than 90 countries, supporting grassroots democratic initiatives. More information about NED and the Democracy Award can be found at www.ned.org.About the Honorees:Founded in April 2004 in Munich, Germany, after the East Turkistan National Congress and the World Uyghur Youth Congress merged into one united organization, the World Uyghur Congress (WUC) promotes democracy, human rights, and freedom for the Uyghur people and supports the use of peaceful, nonviolent, and democratic means to help Uyghurs achieve self-determination. WUC is the sole representative organization of the Uyghur people globally and has made crucial contributions in bringing attention to the CCP’s crushing campaign of physical, religious, linguistic, and cultural repression against the Uyghur people.Founded in 2009, the Tibet Action Institute (TAI) brings together digital communication tools with strategic nonviolent action to strengthen the capacity and effectiveness of the Tibet movement in a digital era. TAI’s team, comprised of technologists and human rights advocates, develops and advances open-source communication technologies, nonviolent strategies, and innovative training programs for Tibetans with a particular focus on digital security and harnessing the power of digital technologies.Founded in 2002, ChinaAid is an international non-profit Christian human rights organization committed to promoting religious freedom and the rule of law in China. Over the past 17 years, ChinaAid has worked to expose human rights abuses and promote truth, justice and freedom by advocating for religious freedom and the rule of law. ChinaAid advocates for the immediate release of prisoners of conscience, equips human rights defenders and religious and community leaders with religious freedom and rule of law training, rescues and resettles persecuted leaders and their families, provides financial assistance to families of political prisoners, and exposes abuse by reporting unique stories of persecution and injustice through its website and social media.CONTACT: Jane Riley Jacobsen (202) 378-9604 w I (703) 801-5376 m I jane@ned.orgShanthi Kalathil delves into China's unprecedented attempts to harness the global...Read Madeleine Albright's introductory remarks at NED's...The January 2019 issue of the Journal of Democracy...The National Endowment for Democracy (NED) will present...Remarks given at the "Two Decades of US-Taiwan Relations"...Shanthi Kalathil testified before the U.S.-China Economic and Security Review...
Presentation of Democracy Service Medal to Senator John McCain#May 8, 2019#Remarks made by NED Chairman Andrew H. Card, Jr. at IRI 2019 Freedom DinnerTuesday, May 7, 2019Good evening,It is my great pleasure to join you tonight to pay an overdue tribute to the longtime leader and champion of IRI, my friend, Senator John McCain.I joined the National Endowment for Democracy as NED’s new Chairman in January 2018.  John had returned to Arizona and was fighting for his life when the Endowment decided it needed to honor him – to let him know how much his leadership and solidarity meant to us – and more importantly, to all those on the front lines of the struggle for democracy whom he supported so tirelessly.We struck this medallion last year – the date on the back says 2018 – but sadly, we did not have an opportunity to present it.  We are so grateful to our friends and colleagues from IRI, and to the McCain family, for allowing us to make this presentation this evening.NED’s Democracy Service Medal was first awarded to the former Polish President and Solidarity leader Lech Walesa and the former AFL-CIO President Lane Kirkland in April 1999 on the 10th anniversary of the roundtable agreement that led to the peaceful transition to democracy in Poland 30 years ago.  The Medal has since been presented to many distinguished individuals, such as the late Czech President Vaclav Havel and the Dalai Lama, who have also shown immense dedication to the cause of democracy and human freedom.John McCain, who has been celebrated for his bravery and personal courage, was also one of the great freedom fighters of the modern era.  He was a champion of democracy wherever it was being challenged and needed his support.  His powerful voice inspired dissidents and political prisoners everywhere and gave them confidence by letting them know that they were not alone.  As a result, his death was mourned by democrats in Russia and Ukraine, in China and Burma, in Cuba and Venezuela, and in Egypt, Iran, Zimbabwe, and so many other countries, both large and small.Senator McCain was also a decades-long friend of the National Endowment for Democracy.  As you all know, IRI is one of the Endowment’s four core institutes, and as IRI’s chairman for more than a quarter century, John McCain did an enormous amount of work to build support in the U.S. Congress for NED’s mission and work.  For that invaluable support, the Endowment and all those we support are forever grateful.John McCain was a proud American, and he made countless others proud to be American.  In remembering John McCain, we pledge ourselves to continuing the fight for freedom to which he devoted his life.It is my great honor as Chairman of the National Endowment for Democracy to present posthumously to Senator John McCain the Democracy Service Medal in recognition of his historic contribution to the cause of democracy and human freedom.Thank you.Remarks by Dr. Judy Shelton, Vice Chairman of NED. The National Endowment for Democracy (NED) presented...Because Jean has given service to that notion, with...The National Endowment for Democracy is proud to honor...The National Endowment for Democracy has awarded the Democracy Service Medal...
“Armenia’s Velvet Revolution” by Elspeth Suthers & Miriam Lanskoy in the Journal of Democracy#April 23, 2019#Embed from Getty Imageswindow.gie=window.gie||function(c){(gie.q=gie.q||[]).push(c)};gie(function(){gie.widgets.load({id:'41D3FMgYQW1Eqw0enqUyhw',sig:'WqfPODZgLiKv3isQR2zjsubVXKAT31YiFQRGEC-TYFQ=',w:'594px',h:'395px',items:'955915574',caption: true ,tld:'com',is360: false })});The 2018 Velvet Revolution in Armenia is a historic opportunity for democratic development. Popular protests led by Nikol Pashinian dislodged the country’s kleptocratic ruling elite, and a new government that promised sweeping domestic reforms was elected at the year’s end. These protests drew on a long history of civil society and opposition organizing in Armenia, in particular postelection protests in 2008, which the government dispersed with violence. In the April 2019 issue of the Journal of Democracy, Elspeth Suthers and Miriam Lanskoy consider the enormous challenges the new government faces as it begins to contemplate reforming a system based on corruption and injustice, while still balancing Armenia’s foreign-policy commitments and security concerns.The Armenian experience underscores that protests are not merely fleeting outbursts that relieve the pressure on a dysfunctional system. . . . they  generate leaders, encourage young people to keep questioning the political elite, and foster collaboration among members of civil society. Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellow Martin Krygier critiqued existing ways of thinking...This panel discussion will examine the essential benchmarks...In his new book, Post-Communist Mafia State, Dr. Bálint...Dr. Lilia Shevtsova delivered the 11th Annual Seymour Martin Lipset Lecture...
National Endowment for Democracy names Edmund M. Glabus Chief Operating Officer#March 26, 2019#WASHINGTON, D.C. – The National Endowment for Democracy (NED) has named Edmund M. Glabus as its new Chief Operating Officer. Mr. Glabus most recently served as executive director of The Veterans Consortium, a nonprofit organization that provides pro bono legal representation to veterans and their loved ones before Federal Courts.  Glabus officially joins the NED staff on March 27, 2019.“Ed comes to the Endowment well-equipped to help NED succeed in carrying out its global mission of advancing democracy around the world,” said NED president Carl Gershman.  “His proven management and nonprofit leadership experience, combined with his global perspective, will be important to NED’s continued impact and success.”Prior to his tenure at The Veterans Consortium, Glabus served in a series of corporate officer positions at ManTech International Corporation as well as at Aegis Research Corporation. Glabus is also a veteran whose more than 20-year Regular Army, National Guard and Army Reserve career included various command and staff tours in the U.S. and overseas.Glabus succeeds J. William Leonard, who is retiring from NED after nine years of outstanding service.  “The Board and staff of NED are extremely grateful to Bill for all he has done to guide and strengthen the Endowment during a period of rapid change and growth,” said Gershman. “Bill’s dedication to the NED as an institution, to our staff and grantees, and to the cause of democracy was obvious to all who had the privilege of working with him. NED is a much stronger institution today because of Bill.”The National Endowment for Democracy was established in 1983 as a private, nonprofit, grant-making foundation with a mission to strengthen democratic institutions around the world through nongovernmental efforts. With an annual appropriation from the U.S. Congress, the NED Board, which is independent and bipartisan, makes more than 1600 grants each year to support projects that promote political and economic freedom and participation, human rights, a strong civil society, independent media and the rule of law in more than 90 countries.CONTACT:  Jane Riley Jacobsen jane@ned.org or 202-378-9700
Testimony to Canadian Parliament by NED President Carl Gershman#February 19, 2019#To the Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and International Development of the House of Commons of CanadaThank you, Chairman Levitt, for inviting me to testify this morning before your Committee.  I applaud the fact that you are initiating a study of Canada’s role in supporting democratic development around the world.  I have long believed that Canada has a critically important role to play in this field, never more so than at the present time.NED was founded 35 years ago, a hopeful moment when what was subsequently called the Third Wave of Democratization was just beginning to gather momentum.  As we well know, the current period is very different.   2018 marked the 13th consecutive year, according to Freedom House, that democracy has declined in the world.  This period has seen the rising power and assertiveness of authoritarian states like China, Russia, and Iran; the backsliding of once democratic countries like Turkey, Venezuela, the Philippines, Thailand, and Hungary; and the rise of populist and nationalist movements and parties in the established democracies.Autocratic regimes have tried to repress independent groups working to promote greater freedom and to cut them off from international assistance from institutions like the National Democratic Institute (NDI) and the International Republican Institute (IRI), NED’s party institutes.  They have also passed harsh laws that make it illegal for NGOs to receive foreign assistance.The work nonetheless goes on and has even been expanding, which is a testament to the determination and the courage of indigenous groups who want to continue to work and receive needed assistance despite the risks.We should not forget that despite all the backsliding, there have also been important gains over the past year in Ethiopia, Armenia, and Malaysia.  NED was providing support to democrats in all of these countries before the political openings, which positioned us to quickly scale up our support once the openings occurred.  This is an example of our commitment and ability to navigate around the obstacles created by authoritarian regimes and to continue to provide assistance while taking care to protect the safety of our grantees.NED is an unusual institution that was built to take on tough challenges.  Following President Ronald Reagan’s historic Westminster Address in 1982, which called for a new effort to support democracy throughout the world, NED was created as a non-governmental organization governed by a private and independent board of directors.NED receives its core funding in the form of an annual congressional appropriation that was authorized in the National Endowment for Democracy Act passed in 1983.  The NED Act also built a fire-wall between the Endowment and the executive branch of our government.  NED is a private, bipartisan, grant-making institution that steers clear of immediate policy disputes and takes a long-term approach to democratic development.  In addition to supporting grassroots democratic initiatives, it also serves as a hub of activity, resources, and intellectual exchange for democracy activists, practitioners, and analysts around the world.The NED takes a multi-sectoral approach to democracy assistance, funding programs by its four core institutes, which represent our two major political parties, the business community and the labor movement.  I’m aware that you heard from the presidents of our two party institutes, NDI and IRI, just two weeks ago.  Each of the NED’s four core institutes is able to access its sector’s expertise and experience from all over the world.In addition, NED’s targeted, demand-driven small grants program responds directly to the needs of local NGOs defending human rights, strengthens independent media and civic education, and empowers women and youth in a manner that enables them to establish credibility as independent democratizing forces in their own societies.  As an autonomous institution dedicated to supporting democracy, NED can steadily strengthen indigenous civil-society organizations, learn through trial and error, and build important networks of trust and collaboration that can be effective over the long term.Moreover, as a nimble private organization with no field offices abroad, NED has developed a reputation for acting swiftly, flexibly, and effectively in providing vital assistance to activists working in the most challenging environments.  It also devotes enormous effort to monitoring the work of our grantees and to fulfilling its fiduciary responsibilities in the careful management of taxpayer funds.NED further leverages its grants program through networking and recognition activities that provide political support and solidarity to frontline activists.  These activities include the World Movement for Democracy, which networks democracy activists globally; the Center for International Media Assistance; the Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellows Program; and our Democracy Award events on Capitol Hill.  NED also promotes scholarly research through the International Forum for Democratic Studies and the Journal of Democracy, giving activists access to the latest insights on aiding democratic transitions and strengthening liberal values, and also helping to inform thinking internationally on critical new challenges facing democracy.In 2015, the Congress provided NED with additional funds to develop a strategic plan to respond to resurgent authoritarianism.  As part of this plan, NED now funds programs that address six strategic priorities: helping civil society respond to repression; defending the integrity of the information space; countering extremism and promoting pluralism and tolerance; reversing the failure of governance in many transitional countries; countering the kleptocracy that is a pillar of modern authoritarianism; and strengthening cooperation among democracies in meeting the threat to democracy.By pursuing common strategic objectives, the entire NED effort has become stronger and more integrated, with greater cooperation taking place across the different regions and among the five institutions – NED and its four core institutes – that comprise what we call the NED family.As Canada thinks about how to establish an effective – and cost-effective – way to advance democracy in the world, I suggest that you consider the distinction that is drawn in a new European report between what it calls top-down and bottom-up approaches to democracy assistance.  In essence, the top-down approach supports the incremental reform of, for example, the judiciary or other institutions, often in a technocratic way and in partnership with governments that may be only superficially committed to democratic reform.  The alternative bottom-up approach responds to and seeks to empower local actors to address immediate challenges they face and to develop their capacity to promote reform and institutional accountability over the long term.The report recommends a “substantial strengthening of the bottom-up instruments” such as the European Endowment for Democracy, an organization modeled on NED that the report says has been effective in dealing with the current difficult challenges.I want to conclude by stating my strong and long-held belief that Canada has the ability to make an important contribution to strengthening democracy internationally, especially at this very uncertain moment when liberal democracy is under attack around the world.  You have hundreds of dedicated democracy practitioners, many of them veterans of NDI and IRI programs, who have the experience to lead a new Canadian effort.  The U.S. is still engaged in this work, and there is strong bipartisan support in the Congress for what NED does and for human rights and democracy more generally.  But the American voice is now more muted than in the past, and the time has come for Canada to step up and provide a new of source of democratic energy and drive.There are many practical ways that you can help, but the decision to create a new instrument to provide such help will itself be an important act of democratic solidarity, one that will give hope to many brave activists and make our world a safer and more peaceful place.
“Safeguarding Democracies Against Authoritarian Sharp Power”#January 22, 2019#Like a growing number of countries, Canada is contending with some vexing challenges to its democracy posed by ambitious and more internationally active authoritarian states. Writing for Policy Options, NED Vice President for Studies and Analysis Christopher Walker assesses the risk posed to multiple sectors—media, universities, academic publishers, technology, elections—by autocratic regimes capable of exerting influence beyond their national borders in an era of hyper-globalization. The threat from authoritarian countries like China, Russia, Saudi Arabia, and Iran is multidimensional and requires a full spectrum response, including the active participation of civil society. Initiatives like the Rapid Response Mechanism (RRM) initiated in 2018 under Canada’s G7 presidency to defend against foreign threats could offer a valuable model of cooperation for future efforts to defend democracy.A concerted response is needed to the challenges presented by such authoritarian regimes. Any effort to strengthen resilience and defend democracy’s integrity must be durable. It will require effective cooperation and dedicated channels for information sharing.  The murder last Friday of Boris Nemtsov, as he was...In conversation with Anne Applebaum, Marcus Melo examined...This project gives a rare glimpse into a situation...The International Forum for Democratic Studies at The...Lilia Shevtsova is nonresident Senior Fellow at the Brookings Institution and...
China’s Global Challenge to Democracy, Corrosive Capital in Central Asia, and More From NED’s International Forum for Democratic Studies#December 14, 2018#In the inaugural episode of the Forum’s new podcast, “Power 3.0 | Authoritarian Resurgence, Democratic Resilience,” Journal of Democracy co-editor Larry Diamond discusses “China and the Global Challenge to Democracy” with podcast co-hosts Christopher Walker and Shanthi Kalathil. Subscribe to the new podcast here.The Hoover Institution’s Glenn Tiffert explores how structural and technological shifts in the global information environment are creating new opportunities for authoritarian regimes to manipulate information at the source in, “New Frontiers in Digital Censorship.” Emeka Umejei discusses the extent to which Chinese investments may contribute to the replication of an authoritarian model of Internet governance with adverse consequences for democracy, freedom of expression, and human rights in “The Imitation Game: Will China’s Investments Reshape African Interests?”In “India’s Interest in a Democratic Indo-Pacific,” Constantino Xavier outlines how the simultaneous rise of a democratic India and an authoritarian China impact the future of democracy in Asia and beyond.Building upon the Center for International Private Enterprise‘s assessment of “corrosive capital” in the Balkans and other regions, Eric Hontz examines the role of Chinese and Russian investment in perpetuating poor governance in Central Asia. During her December 11 presentation, “Is the Party Over? Youth, Political Parties, and Elections in Georgia,” Vera Gogokhia discussed the role of youth in the recent Georgian elections, considered the roots of the current disconnect between political parties and young people, and discussed whether the gap can be bridged.Ivan Krastev explained why illiberal and anti-Western sentiments continue to rise in Russia and Central Europe, and discussed how democratic forces can respond to this challenge during his November 5 discussion on “Imitation and its Discontents: Democratic Malaise in Post-Communist Europe.” NED Vice President for Studies and Analysis Christopher Walker testified on the threat of sharp power to the integrity of democracies in the context of cultural diplomacy before the Canadian Standing Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs and International Trade on November 1. Democratic societies must reckon with the challenges presented by sharp power. The challenge is multifaceted, and so must be any response. Society-wide responses are needed that take into account the reality that the democracies cannot rely solely on governmental measures for meeting what is a complex, multidimensional challenge. At the same time, democracies must take care that they do not make things worse. Democratic systems cannot sacrifice their own standards and values as a way of safeguarding against the authoritarian sharp power.—Christopher Walker, testimony before Canadian Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs and International Trade In light of the rise of populist views in the region, Professor Michael C. Davis...Reagan-Fascell Fellow Vera Gogokhia will discuss the...By Christopher Walker and Robert Orttung, as it appeared...The International Forum for Democratic Studies at
NED Welcomes New Fellows from Burma, Georgia, Ghana, Iran, the Philippines, and Ukraine#November 20, 2018#The National Endowment for Democracy (NED) is pleased to announce its Fall 2018 cohort of Reagan-Fascell and Hurford Youth Fellows.In residence are leading democracy activists, practitioners, journalists, and scholars from a wide range of countries, including Burma, Georgia, Ghana, Iran, the Philippines, and Ukraine.Named in honor of President Ronald Reagan and the late Congressman Dante Fascell (D-Fl.), whose bipartisan vision led to NED’s founding, the Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellows Program seeks to expand the knowledge, broaden the perspectives, build the capacity, and boost the morale of some of the world’s most committed and courageous democracy advocates.Based at the International Forum for Democratic Studies, a leading center for analysis and discussion of the theory and practice of democracy around the world, the Reagan-Fascell program has enabled more than 290 fellows from over 90 countries to deepen their understanding of democracy and enhance their ability to work toward democratic change.Jessica Ludwig of the International Forum for Democratic Studies spoke with...Russian political analyst Lilia Shevtsova will examine...NED President Carl Gershman asks, "Does Democracy Matter?"...Corruption and Abuse of Power in Kenya:  Will...Liberia’s continued lack of transparency poses a...Leading experts on the Balkans discussed the future of the region and potential...
Journal of Democracy October 2018 Issue: Latin America’s Shifting Politics#October 23, 2018#  How is the decline of established parties transforming politics in Latin America—and beyond? When democracies come under pressure, what forces and conditions are key to their survival? Why are authoritarian regimes turning to regional organizations as a tool for bolstering fellow autocrats?In the October 2018 issue of the Journal of Democracy, a set of seven articles investigates the trends underlying recent changes in Latin America’s political landscape—from the sweeping victory of leftist candidate Andrés Manuel López Obrador in Mexico’s July elections (Kenneth F. Greene and Mariano Sánchez-Talanquer) to the impeachment of President Pedro Pablo Kuczynski in Peru (Alberto Vergara). The cluster on “Latin America’s Shifting Politics” also features:Also in the October 2018 issue:For the complete Table of Contents, visit www.journalofdemocracy.org. Digital Security and Press Freedom in Latin America
International Forum for Democratic Studies September 2018 Newsletter: Combating Sharp Power with Soft Power#September 10, 2018#Globalization has enabled authoritarian governments to exert increasing influence within the democracies. This engagement has involved efforts at censorship, or the use of manipulation to sap the integrity of independent institutions. This “sharp power” has the effect of limiting free expression and distorting the political environment. As part of any response, democracies should use their natural competitive advantage and engage civil society to combat sharp power, rather than attempting to engage in equally intrusive campaigns. Kalathil argues that democracies must “rethink how [they] can most effectively project their voices and define their values.”The International Forum explores the cognitive factors that make audiences vulnerable to disinformation, technological factors driving the consumption and spread of disinformation, and the implications of disinformation’s “demand side” for the democratic response.The recent issue features an eight-article cluster on Central and Eastern Europe that analyzes the broader factors behind the dramatic political shifts of recent years. In tandem, the International Forum asks five experts What is the Root Cause of Rising Illiberalism in Central and Eastern Europe?Dean Jackson of the International Forum spoke with Vidushi Marda about the applications of iterative machine learning and how civil society can best contribute to the development of a human rights-conscious framework for AI technology.The July 2018 issue of Democracy Research News highlights regional research from NDRI members around the world. To submit comments or to inquire about joining the Network, please write to Melissa Aten at melissaa@ned.org.Elsa B. Kania examines how China is developing and employing AI to gain global leverage and challenge democratic institutions in “China’s Ambitions in Artificial Intelligence: A Challenge to the Future of Democracy?“Melissa Aten of the International Forum spoke with Zimbabwean lawyer and constitutional expert Alex Magaisa about new political dynamics and what they mean for the future of Zimbabwe in the context of the July 2018 elections.  International Forum for Democratic Studies Executive Director Christopher Walker...The June 2019 edition of the Forum newsletter features...The National Endowment for Democracy is using the Storify...Remarks given at the "Two Decades of US-Taiwan Relations" Conference sponsored...
NED Mourns the Loss of Senator John McCain#August 26, 2018#The Board of Directors and staff of the National Endowment for Democracy were deeply saddened to learn of the death of Senator John McCain, who, among his many great contributions to American public life, served as Chairman of the NED’s close partner, the International Republican Institute (IRI) from 1993-2018.“John McCain was one of the great freedom fighters of all time,” said NED President Carl Gershman. “He was a champion of democracy wherever it was being challenged and needed his support.  His powerful voice gave hope to dissidents and political prisoners everywhere and gave them confidence that they were not alone. As a result, his death is mourned by democrats in Russia and Ukraine, in China and Burma, in Cuba and Venezuela, and in Egypt, Iran, Zimbabwe, and so many other countries.    He was also a great and decades-long friend of the NED, chairing the International Republican Institute for more than a quarter of a century and leading the effort to build support in the U.S. Congress for NED’s mission and work. He was a proud American, and he made countless others proud to be American.   As we mourn his death, we pledge to continue the fight for freedom to which he devoted his life.”The entire NED family extends its sincere condolences and deepest sympathy to the McCain family, staff, and to our colleagues at IRI.
Updates from the International Forum for Democratic Studies#July 23, 2018#The July 2018 Journal of Democracy features an eight-article cluster on rising illiberalism in Central and Eastern Europe, an essay on authoritarian sharp power, and more.The International Forum asks five leading experts: What is the Root Cause of Rising Illiberalism in Central and Eastern Europe?Forum Q&A: Alex Magaisa on Zimbabwe’s Upcoming 2018 Elections – Dr. Magaisa discusses new political dynamics and what they mean for the future of Zimbabwe in the context of the July 2018 elections. Holly Dranginis and Debra LaPrevotte discuss how international law enforcement and investigative organizations can partner with local whistleblowers and eyewitnesses to trace stolen assets in “From Central Africa to Australia: Following the Kleptocrats’ Money.”In “Countering Transnational Kleptocracy: How Democracies Can Lead the Way,” Nate Sibley outlines a roadmap for democracies to take-on authoritarian, kleptocratic regimes.Martin Hala explains China’s strategic objectives in the international arena in “The 16+1 Initiative: China’s Divisive Equation for Central and Eastern Europe.” Drawing lessons from successful cases, Argentine journalist and civil society leader Maria Baron offers observations on strategies for forging ahead on “The Difficult Road to Transparency in Latin America.”During “Elections in Zimbabwe: Autocracy and Stasis, or Democracy and Change?” Dr. Alex Magaisa assesses preparations for the approaching elections in Zimbabwe and discusses the prospects for democratization, including possible post-election scenarios and the roles of the military and the international community.Activist Passy Mubalama examines how the current political crisis affects women’s rights in the DRC, and why the participation of women in politics and security is vital for the prospects of bringing peace and democracy to the country in “Why Women’s Political Participation Matters in the Congo.”Pakistani journalist Nadeem F. Paracha explores the impact that viral hoaxes, rumors, and other forms of manipulated information can have through social media during “Has Freedom of Expression Become a Self-Parody? Examples from Pakistan’s Social Media”Democracies can cut off the life-blood of authoritarian regimes and criminal organizations by tackling rampant money laundering in the global financial system.-Nate Sibley, Countering Transnational Kleptocracy: How Democracies Can Lead the Way The September 2018 edition of the Forum newsletter features new content, event...Shanthi Kalathil delves into China's unprecedented...In Mistrust We Trust: Can Transparency Revive Democracy?
Pre-Release: “What Is ‘Sharp Power’?” by Christopher Walker in the Journal of Democracy#July 9, 2018#In an era of globalization coupled with authoritarian resurgence, the institutions of a growing number of democracies are straining to comprehend and to deal with the projection of authoritarian influence through more diverse channels than ever before. In the July 2018 issue of the Journal of Democracy, Christopher Walker defines the pervasive threat of “sharp power,” a term coined by the NED’s International Forum for Democratic Studies to identify authoritarian influence efforts that seek to pierce, penetrate, and perforate the political and information environments of targeted countries. On an unprecedented scale, authoritarian regimes are employing “sharp power” tactics to manipulate the very institutions that serve as the foundation of democracy, such as free media. Defining and unmasking authoritarian “sharp power” initiatives is a critical first step in counteracting the distorting effects of authoritarian influence in free and open societies.Sharp power is part and parcel of the internationalist turn that authoritarian states have taken in recent years, and its effects are increasingly visible in the institutions critical to democracies’ being able to function as free and self-governing societies.Image Credit: ImageFlow/Shutterstock China at the Tipping Point?
Statement of the National Endowment for Democracy on the Selection of Former Ambassador Derek Mitchell as New NDI President#June 14, 2018#The National Endowment for Democracy (NED) welcomes the announcement today that former Ambassador Derek Mitchell will be the next President of the National Democratic Institute (NDI), a core institute of the Endowment. “Derek brings to NDI not only a wealth of experience but also a deep commitment to the core values that underpin democracy,” said NED President Carl Gershman.  “He is a respected leader whom we have known over the years, and we look forward to working even more closely with him now that he is back at NDI,” said Gershman, referring to Mitchell’s early service with NDI as a senior program officer in the mid 1990’s.Mitchell, who served at U.S. Ambassador to Burma from 2012 – 2016, replaces Kenneth Wollack who has provided outstanding leadership as NDI’s president since 1993.“Ken is greatly admired and liked by all of us at NED,” said Gershman. “We are grateful to him for his tremendous contribution to NDI, to the NED, and to the cause of democracy over more than three decades.” Carl Gershman delivers remarks at B'nai Israel Congregation,...Read the remarks given by NED President Carl Gershman...Since 2003, the National Democratic Institute (NDI)...The National Endowment for Democracy expresses its...Read Carl Gershman's op/ed abou the repression of Uyghurs.
Grantee Spotlight: Eddie Jarwolo, Founder and Executive Director of Naymote Partners for Democratic Development#May 30, 2018#Two dozen years ago, Eddie Jarwolo was a homeless “street kid,” as his native Liberia was torn apart by a devastating civil war. Now 44, he is remarkably at ease, sitting in front of a wall topped by barbed wire at his home in Monrovia, where he has grabbed a leading role in shaping his country’s future without political office or much money to his name.The founder and executive director of Naymote Partners for Democratic Development, Jarwolo is grooming a new generation of socially conscious, politically active Liberian youth. He matter-of-factly tells me that his organization’s grass-roots activism helped contribute to the West African nation’s first peaceful, democratic transfer of power in decades late last year. The work didn’t end there.Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellow Oludotun Babayemi examined...On Thursday, May 4, Youk Chhang, Executive Director...
2018 World Press Freedom Day: KEEPING POWER IN CHECK:  MEDIA, JUSTICE AND THE RULE OF LAW#May 3, 2018#The National Endowment for Democracy is proud to support activists like Rafael Marques de Morais, an Angolan journalist and human rights defender focused on investigating government corruption. His organization, Maka Angola, is a long-time grantee of the NED.  In May 2018, he will face trial again for exposing a shady land deal by former Angolan Attorney General João Maria de Sousa in 2016. If convicted, Rafael faces up to four years and six months in prison. “The theme of the 2018 celebration highlights the importance of an enabling legal environment for press freedom, and gives special attention to the role of an independent judiciary in ensuring legal guarantees for press freedom and the prosecution of crimes against journalists.” – The United NationsIn her CIMA report, Shanthi Kalathil delves into China’s unprecedented attempts...The National Endowment for Democracy to honor activists...Mr. Rafael Marques de Morais is a journalist and human...With its 2017 Democracy Award, the National Endowment...Remarks presented by Ambassador Antonio Luvualu de...Join us on Friday, April 28, for a discussion with leading experts in Ukrainian...
Forum Q&A: Lilia Shevtsova on Russia as A Global Challenge#April 13, 2018#TWEET | SHARE | PDFLilia Shevtsova is a Russian political scientist currently based at Chatham House in London as an associate fellow. Her career has included stints at the Brookings Institution, Carnegie Moscow Center, Georgetown University, and Sciences Po, where she has conducted extensive research and writing on issues relating to postcommunist transformation, democratic transitions, and relations between Russia’s foreign policy. Dr. Shevtsova’s work has been featured in numerous publications, including Foreign Policy, the Financial Times, the Washington Post, Le Monde, and the Journal of Democracy. She is a member of the editorial boards of the American Interest and the Journal of Democracy. She is currently a Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellow at the National Endowment for Democracy in Washington, D.C. Her April 17, 2018, presentation at the Endowment focused on “Russia as a Global Challenge.”In March 2018, Vladimir Putin was credited with an electoral victory, giving him a fourth term as Russian president and making him Russia’ paramount leader for nearly two decades. The Kremlin’s growing internationalism, including election interference in the democracies, has caught the democracies off-guard. An important part of this internationalism is Russian transnational kleptocracy, which has the effect of corroding democratic institutions as a recent cluster of articles in the Journal of Democracy pointed out.Melissa Aten of the International Forum for Democratic Studies spoke with Lilia Shevtsova about these and other implications of Russia’s domestic and international policies. (This interview has been condensed and edited for clarity. The views and opinions expressed here do not necessarily reflect those of the National Endowment for Democracy.) Melissa Aten: Now that Vladimir Putin will serve as president for a fourth term, what do you think Russia’s trajectory will be, both domestically and internationally?Lilia Shevtsova: It seems to me that that Russia is entering a kind of historic pause. Let’s call it the interregnum. Which means that the old system—and everybody understands this, at least in Russia—the old system is obsolete; it’s so archaic. It doesn’t work at all. It cannot promote any kind of growth and development, and it cannot secure stability as well. And in a sense, President Putin is presiding over his own last chapter, over his political agony, which is kind of a bitter, ironic paradise.The Kremlin is trying to preserve the status quo by portraying Russia as a “besieged fortress” with an  outside enemy to blame for its problems, and to some degree this has brought some results. It gave the president a kind of legitimacy, but this approach will only work for a short time. We should ask to what extent Russians, both the elite and the population, are ready to live inside this fortress, especially when you take into account that the Russian elite–the oligarchs and the ruling class and the members of the government–would love to be in Londongrad to become personally integrated into the West. Will they be ready to leave the besieged fortress? What about the population? There is a lot of misunderstanding about its patience to be subjects of this repressive power.The polls tell us the real story. Fifty-seven to 60 percent of Russians would agree that Russia is a superpower, but they would prefer the superpower not be an arrogant, predatory power—rather a power that would guarantee them well-being and a peaceful life. Only 19 percent of Russians believe that Russia should fight and contradict the U.S., and only 14 percent would like Russia to be an aggressive power in the territory of the post-Soviet space.Putin could use another gimmick: the anti-corruption struggle, just like his predecessors including Stalin did. This would mean that he would address two problems: cleansing the rotten, demoralized, high-echelon of the elite and responding to the demands of society for justice. The trouble is that the demoralized, corrupted elite cannot produce this change.Internationally, I would say that Putin has brought Russia into a kind of a trap, and he doesn’t know where the exit is. What kind of trap? He brought Russia into confrontation with the West, but this contradicts the very essence of the traditional Russian model of survival—by using the West, by integrating the Russian elite into the West. Both sides, Russia and the West, will be trying to look for a new balance between deterrence on the one hand and dialogue on the other, without knowing where the exit to much more normal relations will be. Hence, we could make an analogy: the international situation as an Alfred Hitchcock movie, where everybody feels that there is a kind of threat looming ahead, not knowing where it will come from and when.  Unless there is some formidable shock—a geopolitical catastrophe, for example—that will force both sides to really look for an exit from this confrontation, it is difficult to see how it will end.For the time being, the West and Russia are playing the game of who winks first. Neither side knows how to de-escalate, and this is the problem. The West should know how to de-escalate, because the West has a tradition and culture of consensus, of compromise-seeking, of negotiations. In the Russian system, the ruling elite does not know how to backtrack because backtracking for them would mean suicide. They cannot lose the image of being a great power without also losing power.Both sides, Russia and the West, will be trying to look for a new balance between deterrence on the one hand and dialogue on the other, without knowing where the exit to much more normal relations will be.In previous conversations, I have heard you describe what you call the “Russian survival triad”: the desire to be inside the West, with the West, and against the West. Can you elaborate on that, and discuss how it relates to Western strategy toward Russia?The collapse of the Soviet Union brought postmodernity with globalization, which means the borders between fair and unfair, truth and fake, war and peace have become fuzzy. This has become the best environment for this Russian triad of being with the West, outside of the West, and inside of the West—to incorporate personally into Western political and economic systems and to insulate Russian society from Western impact.  This was effective until Putin made this absolutely disastrous decision for himself, kicking over the global chess board with the 2014 annexation of Crimea, and the story of happiness ended.This model isn’t totally new for Russia, because Peter the Great and Stalin also pursued modernization at the expense of the West—using Western means, Western ideas. Probably the most elaborate example of this triad has been German Ostpolitik. Ostpolitik was formed by the West German and Soviet elite in the 1970’s, built around the “Red Bargain” with West Germany and the Soviet Union. The essence of this bargain was gas in exchange for a pipeline. This is when West Germany became a promoter of Soviet interests within the NATO alliance. The whole idea was based on the illusion that the more the West embraced the Soviet elite and the Soviet Union, the closer you came to the Western dream of transforming the Soviet Union. Well, the Soviet Union collapsed before it was transformed, which, by the way, didn’t erase the new edition of Ostpolitik—they still are dreaming about that. Germany is still partially accommodating the Kremlin and the Russian elite in the hopes this will change their politics. Well, good luck.Ostpolitik, and this policy of accommodation, was a very important element of the survival of the Russian system. At the same time, this triad has helped create something that we could call the “Manafort Machine,” where one part of the lobbyist machine of the United States allegedly promotes the interests of the corrupted Ukrainian regime. The same machine exists in all major European countries: in the UK, Germany, and France. This machine has become an element that, in fact, undermines liberal democracy, discredits liberal ideas, and undermines the whole idea that the West could be a role model in other transitional countries or autocratic societies. You cannot be a role model if we in fact can seduce and bribe you.So the problem is to what extent the West will be ready after this confrontation to return to its normative principles, to what extent can the Western establishment again become the role model for the rest. Unless we have this answer, we cannot answer the question of why liberal democracy is collapsing and fading around the world. I have also heard you say that the Russian political elite are eliminating the state, as a method of survival. What do you mean by that?We currently have a very cynical and smart political regime that in fact has survived by demolishing not only the Russian liberal minority and modernist part of society, but, unexpectedly for themselves, the pillars of the Russian traditional state as well.There are three elements of this terminator machine. First, by holding fake elections, they discredit this very important means of legitimacy. The Kremlin leaves society without any means of legitimating authority. The second element of this terminator machine is the fact that the current regime, by confronting the West, is leaving Russia without financial resources to refinance the Russian corporate and state debt, and without technological ammunition for the oil and gas industry, and this is the source of Russia’s existence. Third, by breaking international rules (the war in Ukraine, interference in Syria, meddling in American, German, and French political life), they are bringing on the country’s demise.  In the end, not only does the current regime undermine and bury the modernist minority, the law of unintended consequences undermines the traditional pattern of the state’s existence. Russia has been active in many of the world’s hotspots: Syria, Venezuela, North Korea.  What motivates Russia’s involvement? Does it have the strength to continue to be so active in these types of conflicts in the near and long term?For starters, Russia is involved in two wars– in Ukraine and Syria–and the Kremlin has no clue as to how get out of them without losing face. Indeed, Moscow tries to keep its presence in other parts of the world, including Venezuela, North Korea and even South Africa.  The Kremlin tries to preserve the Great Power status that it needs for domestic legitimacy, but one should not exaggerate Russia’s global impact. Expansion has become a heavy burden for the Russian budget and Russian citizens do not want to sacrifice their living standards for the sake of great power ambitions. The need to limit its global ambitions due to shrinking resources, combined with its inability to find other proof of Russia’s greatness, will be a tough challenge for the Kremlin in the future. You have said that Western pundits struggle to understand Russia. What are the main sources of their misunderstandings?The history of fallacies is long, starting with the beginning of the post-communist period, when many people believed Yeltsin was a liberal reformer. In the recent past, prevailing fallacies include the idea common in 2010 and 2011 that the war in Ukraine is the result of European Union pressure on Ukraine and the desire of Europeans to play in the Russian area of interest. In Germany and in Washington, they were arguing that the war in Ukraine is just a civil war between different factions, with no kind of impact on the part of Russia.Another new myth is the collective campaign by pundits to find an equilibrium between Russia and the West. The key hope is that if the West stops NATO enlargement, then equilibrium can be reached. How has kleptocracy affected the trajectory of democratic development in Russia since the 1990s?It seems to me that there are two important points. First, we have to distinguish between corruption and kleptocracy. Corruption presupposes the existence of a more or less independent bureaucracy and state apparatus on the one hand, and the business class on the other, which allows the business class to bribe representatives of the elite. This is not a kleptocracy. This is simple and primitive corruption.Kleptocracy is the merger of power and property. Those who rule the country own it. This is a phenomenon that has emerged in the societies that have failed to transform themselves. The Eastern European communist countries that experienced successful anti-communist revolutions were lucky because they did so before this merger occurred. Anti-kleptocratic revolutions are much more complicated, and I don’t know whether they are possible everywhere.The current confrontation is being waged at a time when there is no clear world order, when the old paradigm has collapsed, and when at least some actors do not respect any kind of taboos. These regimes are gaining legitimacy by breaking the rules and by breaking taboos.The poisoning of Sergei Skripal and his daughter in Salisbury has brought renewed scrutiny of Russian investment, through real estate and other channels, in the U.K. Why does so much illicit Russian money end up in London, and what do you think can be done to address this?Well, it seems to me it’s understandable why the U.K. is so attractive for Russians. A very important factor is that the U.K. provides secure guarantees of private property, and it has a fair justice system. If you have something in Britain, it’s just safe. On the other hand, when the British allowed the penetration of dirty money and the U.K.’s transformation into a laundromat, they helped to create a very powerful machine that serviced the needs of authoritarian kleptocracies and made “Londongrad” part of their kleptocratic establishment.We should mention that the British have started to become quite concerned about this dirty money. They recently passed a law on unexplained wealth orders that allows British law enforcement to investigative the origins of dirty money, and at least two cases from Central Asia have been investigated. They are also scrutinizing their “golden visa” regime, which allows people to purchase visas in exchange for one or two million pounds.The British have become concerned, not only about the corruption of their financial system and real estate market, but about the pillars of their political system. The question is to what extent they will be concerned enough to start a serious investigation.According to some estimates, 125 billion pounds of Russian money, not only dirty but all types of money, came into the U.K. Altogether, according to experts, a major portion of between 800 billion and 1 trillion pounds of Russian money that left the country went through the U.K. and its affiliated islands.The problem is that the Brits cannot fight this war alone. And the success of the British anti-kleptocracy campaign depends on the unity of the European Union, and to what extent the whole European community understands that Europe and the West have powerful instruments of influencing not only authoritarian countries, but also reforming their own societies. So, the ball is in the Western court.Two things to end with. The current global situation could be more pervasive, more cynical, more unpredictable, and more dangerous than the previous Cold War. The Cold War was waged according to certain rules of the game that both sides respected. The current confrontation is being waged at a time when there is no clear world order, when the old paradigm has collapsed, and when at least some actors do not respect any kind of taboos. These regimes are gaining legitimacy by breaking the rules and by breaking taboos. That’s why we have the Hitchcock effect all the time.Secondly, we shouldn’t ignore one very important element of Russia’s recklessness. Despite the fact that Russia is a country in decay, Russia in fact creates a shadow. And there is another power, China, calmly standing in the shadow, watching the whole phenomenon and waiting for the final results of this game. In a much more astute, much more strategic way, it is trying to fill the void, trying to use this desperate struggle between reckless, adventurous Russia and the West for its own gain. And waiting for the moment when the two elephants will defeat each other. “Russia as a Global Challenge,” an April 17 event at the National Endowment for Democracy, with Lilia Shevtsova, Miriam Lanskoy, and Christopher Walker.Melissa Aten’s Big Question with Lilia Shevtsova, Mark Galeotti, Vladislav Inozemtsev, and Hannah Thoburn on “Kleptocracy and Russia’s Foreign Policy”“The Kremlin Emboldened: Paradoxes of Decline,” an October 2017 Journal of Democracy article by Lilia Shevtsova.“The Rise of Kleptocracy: Power and Plunder in Putin’s Russia,” a January 2018 Journal of Democracy article by Miriam Lanskoy and Dylan Myles-Primakoff.Read Carl Gershman's opening remarks at IRI's Democracy Backlash Seminar.By Christopher Walker and Robert Orttung, as it appeared...In his presentation, Leonid Gozman demonstrated how...Rodger Potocki, Director, Central Europe and Eurasia,...NED Vice President for Studies and Analysis Christopher...In light of the rise of populist views in the region, Professor Michael C. Davis...
NED’s International Forum Welcomes New Members to the Network of Democracy Research Institutes (NDRI)#March 26, 2018# The Network of Democracy Research Institutes (NDRI) is a global network of think tanks that conduct research and analysis on democracy, democratization, and related topics in comparative government and international affairs. The collaborative space created by the NDRI allows think tanks from diverse parts of the world to initiate joint projects. The NDRI also encourages member institutes to reach out in solidarity to one another and to share knowledge and experiences.The International Forum is pleased to welcome the following members to the Network of Democracy Research Institutes:The October 2018 issue of the Journal of Democracy features a seven-article...In conversation with Anne Applebaum, Marcus Melo examined...Popular Ghanaian radio host Nana Ama Agyemang Asante...The International Forum for Democratic Studies asked...The April 2018 issues features an eight-article cluster...The January 2018 issue features 7 articles on transnational kleptocracy, an...
National Endowment for Democracy mourns the death of Chinese lawyer Li Baiguang#February 26, 2018#Suspicious death must be investigatedWASHINGTON, DC – The National Endowment for Democracy (NED) was deeply saddened and concerned to learn of the sudden and unexpected death of Chinese lawyer and activist Li Baiguang who passed away on Monday, February 26 at an army hospital in Nanjing, China.Li, a tireless advocate of religious freedom and human rights, was a frequent target of harassment and physical intimidation for his work to uphold the rights of Chinese citizens provided for under Chinese law.  He was a recipient of NED’s 2008 Democracy Award.“We mourn the death of Li Baiguang, who was a good and courageous man who fought for human rights and religious freedom in China at great risk to his own personal safety,” said NED president Carl Gershman.  “When we honored him with the NED’s Democracy Award in 2008, we noted that he had been detained and physically attacked many times for his work, the first time in 2004 when he had brought legal action on behalf of 100,000 peasants who had been forcibly evicted from their land.  Given this history, and reports that he very recently appeared to be in good health, it is essential that an independent and impartial investigation into Li’s death be carried out before anyone accepts the official claim by Chinese authorities that Li Baiguang died from natural causes,” said Gershman. “Absent a credible investigation, reasonable people of good will hold the Chinese government responsible for the death of Li Baiguang and will see clearly the grave dangers facing all those who seek to defend the rule of law in China and to support people whose rights are grievously abused.”The Board of Directors and the staff of the National Endowment for Democracy extend their sincere condolences and deepest sympathy to Li’s wife Xu Hanmei and to their eight-year-old son, as well as to Li’s colleagues who continue their brave work to defend human rights and the rule of law in China.The National Endowment for Democracy expresses its grave concern over the detention...The International Forum for Democratic Studies at The...Read the welcome and introductions by Carl Gershman.The National Endowment for Democracy is proud to honor two of these voices –...
Forum Q&A: Maria Ressa on Digital Disinformation and Philippine Democracy in the Balance#February 5, 2018#TWEET | SHARE | PDFMaria Ressa is a leading Filipina journalist and CEO of  Rappler, an online news site based in the Philippines. In 2017, she accepted the National Democratic Institute’s Democracy Award on behalf of  Rappler for its coverage of disinformation in the Philippines. She has more than thirty years of experience working as a journalist in Southeast Asia, most of them as CNN’s bureau chief in Manila, then Jakarta. She later spent six years managing more than a thousand journalists for the largest multi-platform news operation in the Philippines. Follow her on Twitter @mariaressa.The election of Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte in 2016 came amidst a wave of divisive rhetoric and digital disinformation. Since the election, independent journalists and opposition politicians have been targeted by systematic campaigns of online harassment, and investigators have identified networks of pro-government bloggers and automated social media accounts engaged in a concerted effort to tarnish the credibility of the independent Philippine press and bolster support for President Duterte.On January 15, 2018, shortly after this interview was conducted, the Philippines’ Securities and Exchange Commission revoked Rappler’s registration, claiming that international funding the site received from philanthropic sources violated Philippine law regulating foreign ownership of mass media. Rappler objected to the ruling, noting that the receipt of these funds afforded their donor neither ownership of Rappler nor control of its operations or reporting. Observers called the decision a blow to press freedom in the Philippines.Dean Jackson of the International Forum for Democratic Studies spoke with Maria Ressa about her experience working as a journalist in a rapidly deteriorating media environment and the impact of social media on the trajectory of democracy in Southeast Asia. (This interview has been condensed and edited for clarity. The views and opinions expressed within do not necessarily reflect those of the National Endowment for Democracy.) Dean Jackson: You’ve had a distinguished career covering Southeast Asia. What is your view on the health of the region’s media ecosystem today—how has it waxed and waned over time?Maria Ressa: For a big chunk of this time I was “foreign media”—I was able to come in and out of the region and had the privilege to move from local media, where we started our own kind of “60 Minutes” in 1986, to CNN,  where I worked from 1987 to about 2005. After that, I came home to the Philippines and worked for the largest network there. What I saw from the late ‘80s until 2016 was really the movement of Southeast Asia away from autocratic, one man rule. I covered every country in our region as it transitioned to democracy. The trigger was the Philippines in 1986. Going through that – Singaporean Prime Minister Lee Kuan Yew stepping down; the retirement of Malaysia’s longest-serving Prime Minister, Mahathir Mohamad, after twenty-two years in power; going through the end of thirty-two years of Suharto’s rule in Indonesia… it was amazing. I felt like I was covering a region where people were finding their voices and finding ways to speak truth to power.The other trend that happened during that time was a shift toward independent media. In some countries, the shift was incomplete: In Indonesia during the 2014 elections, you still saw politicians and businessmen with political ambitions owning media. But, in general, journalism flourished, and certainly in the Philippines from 1986 until recently, we had a rambunctious—that’s the word that’s always used—a rambunctious, free press after we came out of twenty-one years of rule by the Marcos dictatorship.I got to cover the pendulum swinging this way, but now I fear that that it may be moving back the other way towards authoritarian rule. That also began in the Philippines, with the election of Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte. Like the rest of the world, what you’re seeing is that liberal democracy has not been inclusive enough, the benefits haven’t trickled down to everyone, and social media technology has empowered populations to demand more; it’s had a great impact on both perception and the vote in these democracies. Do you think of the Philippines as a bellwether for the region?  Well, some people say the Philippines is much more like Latin America than it is like the rest of Southeast Asia, but again, when it comes to freedom of the press, issues of human rights, and even its role in the geopolitical balance of power, we’re seeing a reversal in the Philippines with Duterte’s election in 2016. You’re seeing a rollback and people wanting more of a ‘macho man’ who knows what he wants, who goes where he wants and does what he wants, who seems authentic. At the same time, he’s shifted the Philippines away from its traditional alliance with the United States towards China and Russia, and those are new things; in the thirty-some odd years I’ve been a journalist, I’ve not seen this kind of radical shift in such a short period of time. You have a harrowing personal story about what it’s like to navigate this shifting media environment as a journalist. Could you summarize your experience as a target of systemic harassment over social media?You know, Rappler was born in 2012 and we rode the crest of social media. We were great advocates for empowering ordinary people through social media and we pushed Filipinos to adopt it. But what we saw during the campaigns of 2016 was the fomenting of anger, hitting these fracture lines within societies… in the Philippines, it was the gap between the rich and the poor and the gap between “Imperial Manila” and the countryside. The campaign leading up to the 2016 elections fomented anger over these gaps, but after President Duterte won, that was when it really became weaponized. Any kind of independent institution or voice was targeted. So beginning in July 2016, for about a month after the elections, President Duterte boycotted traditional journalists, and at the same time his campaign machinery began targeting news organizations with messages about corruption in media, attacking the credibility of traditional journalism. Shortly after that, it began targeting individual journalists.Rappler and I became a target after we did a series on the “propaganda wars.” We released stories that showed how this hate was being used to create doubt in institutions and in journalists… That triggered a wave of attacks against me and against Rappler that reached as many as ninety hate messages per hour… ninety messages a week, you can handle, but an hour? That becomes a whole different ball game, and our response to it was to do what we do as journalists: to shine a light and tell people that these attacks were happening, that journalists were being targeted.After journalists were targeted, opposition politicians were next, and the one who I think really bore the brunt of the propaganda machine’s attacks was Senator Leila de Lima, the former Commission on Human Rights chief and justice secretary who had been investigating Duterte and then became a Senator; President Duterte began targeting her and within a few months, she was jailed.The harbinger of the attacks against her in the real world was a social media campaign. What we saw with these attacks is not just an attempt to tear down the credibility of anyone questioning or perceived to be a critic of government, but also to seed doubt in truth, and this is where you can see the disinformation campaign that continues today. You’ve said elsewhere that Duterte may have adopted these techniques from authoritarian governments overseas. Could you tell us more about that?Well, this approach certainly isn’t homegrown. Rappler is a startup that grew on social media and we watched exponential growth in the use of anger and hate online, which had not really happened in the Philippines like this before. We looked to two countries when trying to figure out what was going on. The first was China, and the other was actually Ukraine and what Russia had done there. Looking at the data, in China during 2016 state-sponsored accounts produced roughly 450 million fake messages on social media. But the difference between the approach in China and the Russian approach in Ukraine was the pointed anger, the sowing of doubt in truth, the disinformation aspects of it. In China, you’re flooded with state messages but they are kind of boring, extolling the virtues of the state, versus what we saw Russia using in Ukraine and against its own citizens, the breaking down of facts until you don’t know what is real and what is trustworthy… in that environment, the most powerful voice gains more power. In Russia that voice belongs to Putin, and in the Philippines it belongs to Duterte. Has that been the largest effect on Philippine politics from these shifts in the media environment? How do politics work in an environment where the media operates in that way? Up until 2016, because our institutions are weak in the Philippines, traditional media and journalists were seen as the most credible institutions. We’ve seen this shift quickly: traditional media was bombarded beginning in July of 2016, and now many Filipinos’ trust in traditional media has been eroded as disinformation and fake news have polarized our society.The ecosystem has changed dramatically: at the base of it is the weaponization of the social media campaign machinery that was used during the 2016 elections. Several of the key creators of propaganda from the campaign machine are now paid by the government.The second layer of this is, how does it shift from social media to traditional media? There are newspapers and websites that are owned and operated by businessmen close to President Duterte or who are appointed to their positions by him. From there, it jumps into state media, which operates through radio, on television, and online. State media is run by the Presidential Communications Operations Office, which has no qualms about saying that they are sending their folks for training to China and Russia. These are former journalists, and I remember asking them, “Really? You’re sending your guys to China and Russia for training?” And they said “Yes, because it’s free!” And then, finally, you close the loop through the way appointments have been made. This information ecosystem is the harbinger of some of the policy shifts and priorities of the Duterte administration.Let’s be blunt about this now: traditional journalists are no longer the gatekeepers. Human journalists have been replaced by the assumptions built into the platforms’ algorithms, which looks more and more like mob rule. It creates echo chambers, and in the process, has weakened Philippine democracy.It’s striking that state employees are doing this openly. Often,  governments outsource this activity so that there’s some degree of plausible deniability, but it doesn’t sound like that’s the case in the Philippines. It starts with that first step of crippling traditional media. Part of how you do that is you replace traditional journalists with bloggers who do propaganda for the administration. That, I suppose, is great for the people in the administration, who feel that they’re among friends, but what’s shocking to me is the idea of attacking the media as a check on the government.This transition is very apparent, and I think that part of the reason it’s been possible is because of the big social media platforms, which have gotten rid of a public space where you see different sides of the story; instead, it’s algorithms where if you follow the propaganda machine’s content creators and bloggers, you will only see their content and you won’t see any of the challenges to that worldview. These echo chambers are extremely dangerous in a threatened democracy like the Philippines, because information is key to keeping democracy strong.Let’s be blunt about this now: traditional journalists are no longer the gatekeepers. Human journalists have been replaced by the assumptions built into the platforms’ algorithms, which looks more and more like mob rule. It creates echo chambers, and in the process, has weakened Philippine democracy. Could you go into more detail on how social media has contributed to the shift you’ve described?I was one of social media’s greatest advocates, and again: Rappler could not have grown and could not have become the media organization that we are today without the power of social media. In the Philippines, social media is our public space; more than 97 percent of Filipinos who are online are on Facebook. One of the reasons I was such an advocate of social media in the beginning was because I felt like it empowered everyone, and it did; but by driving news consumption through the platforms, social media companies have, without realizing it, taken over the gatekeeping power of journalists.The algorithms that power the platforms don’t distinguish between fact and fiction, or between the New York Times and dubious blogs, or between what you ate for dinner and the top news of the day. The platforms give all of this to you in a mix, and the more you click on something the more of it you are given. That assumption, when it comes to news and information in a working democracy… well, we saw the impact of that globally in 2016. We first saw it in Brexit, and we saw it in Duterte’s election in the Philippines. “Distinguishing Disinformation from Propaganda, ‘Fake News,’ and Misinformation,” an International Forum issue brief by Dean Jackson.“From Crisis to Governance: Reclaiming the Philippines’ Democracy Narrative,” a January 10, 2018 public presentation by Reagan-Fascell Fellow Maxine Tanya Hamada.“The Authoritarian Capture of Social Media,” by Peter Kreko for the Power 3.0 blog.Dean Jackson’s November 2017 Q&A with Jonathon Morgan on “Tracking Digital Disinformation.”Dean Jackson’s July 2017 Q&A with Phil Howard on “Computational Propaganda’s Challenge to Democracy.”“Southeast Asia: Voting Against Disorder,” an April 2017 Journal of Democracy article by Thomas Pepinsky (Project Muse subscription required).Pakistani journalist Nadeem F. Paracha explored the impact that viral hoaxes,...The Forum 2000 Foundation pursues the legacy of Václav...The April 2018 issues features an eight-article cluster...Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellow Martin Krygier critiqued...On Tuesday, September 18, the National Endowment for...Steven Levitsky is Harvard College Professor and Professor of Government at...
Journal of Democracy January 2018 Issue: The Rise of Kleptocracy#January 18, 2018#In a seven-article cluster on transnational kleptocracy, analysts examine the rise of offshore finance, Malaysia’s massive 1MDB scandal, how Russia and China compare to the kleptocratic model, and more.The January issue cluster on transnational kleptocracy features:For further discussion about transnational kleptocracy, read blog posts related to this article cluster on the International Forum’s Power 3.0 blog.How does regime type affect a country’s capacity to confront terrorist attacks? Amichai Magen explains the “triple democracy advantage” in preventing and responding to terror, while Geoffrey Macdonald and Luke Waggoner argue that rising extremism in Tunisia highlights the importance of managing expectations during democratic transitions.After decades of military rule, high hopes greeted the triumph of the National League for Democracy (NLD) in Burma’s 2015 elections. Zoltan Barany assesses why these hopes have faded amid stalled reforms and brutal military assault on Burma’s Rohingya Muslim minority.In addition, in the January 2018 issue: For the complete Table of Contents, visit www.journalofdemocracy.org.For more than two decades now, the majority of the world’s poorest countries...Remarks given at the "Two Decades of US-Taiwan Relations"...Joseph Nye and Shanthi Kalathil joined the Pacific...Russian political analyst Lilia Shevtsova will examine...The International Forum for Democratic Studies asked...China at the Tipping Point?
“A New Trumpet for Democracy” by NED’s Chairman Judy Shelton#December 21, 2017#Ronald Reagan’s wisdom often went unappreciated in his day. In a 1982 address to the British Parliament, he presented a strategy to confront Soviet communism and other forms of dictatorship by championing American values. Commentators deemed it “naive” and “wishful thinking”—not to mention dangerous—to talk of advancing American principles and ideals. Why provoke hostility by trumpeting the superiority of democracy?Read more of “A New Trumpet for Democracy” in The Wall Street JournalMarco Rubio congratulates the activists and honorees of the 2017 Democracy Award.On June 8th, 1982, delivered a major foreign policy...Remarks by Dr. Judy Shelton, Vice Chairman of NED. This month, we celebrate the 35th anniversary of the...The Honorable Vin Weber testifies at the hearing on...
Forum Q&A: Aurel Croissant on Coups, Civil-Military Relations, and Implications for Zimbabwe#December 4, 2017#TWEET | SHARE | PDFAurel Croissant is professor of political science at Heidelberg University in Germany, where his research focuses on democratization, authoritarianism, civil-military relations, and Asian politics. He has published over 200 articles, book chapters, monographs, and edited volumes, appearing in English, German, Russian, Spanish, and Korean. Since 2012, he has served as co-editor of  Democratization and also serves on the editorial boards of the  Asian Journal of Political Science and the  Journal of Contemporary Southeast Asian Affairs. He is currently a Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellow at the National Endowment for Democracy.In authoritarian regimes, dictators and militaries survive and endure based on a system of mutual support. When dictators become vulnerable—due to mass mobilization against them or sudden political or economic crises—what factors determine when militaries withdraw their support? In the absence of meaningful public protest amidst longstanding economic crisis, such as in Zimbabwe, what might account for a military coup? What does research tell us about the prospects for democracy in Zimbabwe?Shanthi Kalathil of the International Forum for Democratic Studies spoke with Aurel Croissant about comparative lessons on military interventions in authoritarian regimes, his research on civil-military relations, and its implications for understanding recent events in Zimbabwe. (This interview has been condensed and edited for clarity. The views and opinions expressed here do not necessarily reflect those of the National Endowment for Democracy.) Shanthi Kalathil: In Zimbabwe, even as recently as last year, many felt that the army would be unlikely to break ranks with ruling party Zanu-PF and (former president) Robert Mugabe. With all of this in the news of late, can you talk about your research on when militaries support dictators and when they oust them?Aurel Croissant: Generally, in autocracies, militaries are a key element of the ruling coalition. That is, either they are the ruler, or as in the case of Zimbabwe, they are an important supporter for the dictator, so no authoritarian regime can survive without the support of the military. For militaries to oust a dictator they need a motive, and they need opportunity. If there’s only a motive, such as they oppose  the dictator for whatever reason, but there’s no opportunity, they may stage a coup d’état, but the coup will fail. If there is opportunity but no motive, then there will be no coup.There are many different motives for militaries to oust a dictator. The most important motives are probably that military leaders feels that their personal interests or the corporate interests of the military as an organization are threatened by the dictator. In reality it’s difficult to distinguish personal from institutional motives, obviously. For example, militaries often defect from an authoritarian leader because they feel that a mass protest against the authoritarian regime may lead to the collapse of the military organization. This was obviously not the case in Zimbabwe because there was no mass protest earlier this year against Mugabe.A second motive for the military to oust a dictator might be that there is an acute political or economic crisis, and the dictator threatens to cut the military’s budget and military privilege. This also was not the case in Zimbabwe.A third motive is a succession crisis. We know from coup studies and civil-military relations research that dictators are particularly vulnerable to military coups very early and very late in their term. Very early in their term, it’s clear that dictators need time and resources to institutionalize mechanisms of “coup-proofing” and to create political institutions that solve commitment problems. Often dictators come to power through a coup which then may trigger counter-coups.Dictators also are very vulnerable to military coups when they have been long in power and are of high age, when a succession crisis comes up, or when it’s obvious to the military that there will be a succession, either from within the regime or within the ruling family.Then, the question for the military is, why should they support the successor? In personalist regimes like Zimbabwe with their inherent weak institutions, succession crises are moments of insecurity and uncertainty for military leaders and the other non-military members of the ruling coalition. There are shifting loyalties. It’s not clear if the successor will have the support from internal and external allies of the authoritarian regime, and this seems to be the case right now in Zimbabwe. But what’s pretty clear is that usually military leaders organize coups in coalition with civilian elites. And this also seems to be the case in Zimbabwe. Segments of the ruling party and part of the civilian regime coalition seem to support the military coup.In personalist regimes like Zimbabwe with their inherent weak institutions, succession crises are moments of insecurity and uncertainty for military leaders and the other non-military members of the ruling coalition.Is there a tipping point, then, when militaries withdraw their support? And what do they do next, once they withdraw support for dictators?Well, tipping points usually include mass mobilization that the regime, the police, and/or the security apparatus are unable to control or repress; sudden economic shocks; or sudden political shock like a lost war or some kind of foreign policy crisis, which is not the case here in Zimbabwe. What seems to be the case here is that this dictator is exceptionally old, and he came up with this really “weird” idea of nominating his wife as successor. It is “weird” because female political leaders find it especially difficult to find acceptance in dictatorships and, more generally, in sub-Saharan Africa. There have not been many female dictators in contemporary history, and there are also not many female government leaders in sub-Saharan Africa. There’s one in Malawi, the Central African Republic, Liberia, and that’s it.Here the tipping point seems to be the question of “how to solve the succession”, which, for whatever reason, has become an urgent and pressing issue in Zimbabwe. And one could also say that Mugabe nominating not only a member of the family, but a female member of the family, seems to have triggered resistance within the military and the non-military regime coalition. So nominating female successors is a very bad idea for dictators.Tipping points usually include mass mobilization that the regime, the police, and/or the security apparatus are unable to control or repress; sudden economic shocks; or sudden political shock like a lost war or some kind of foreign policy crisis.Why and when would the military defend or withdraw support for a dictator’s family member, or throw its support to another regime figure (such as Emmerson Mnangagwa, the former vice-president)?  Most of the time, militaries do not support family or dynastic succession in authoritarian regimes, with a handful of exceptions (including the Assads in Syria, the Kims in North Korea, and the Kabilas in the Democratic Republic of Congo). In the case of Zimbabwe, it appears that the military elites and party elites together cooperated in the attempt to prevent the family member from taking over the presidency. This is the typical scenario: When a personalist dictator tries to instill a family member as insurance that he won’t end up in prison, or be executed or exiled, the regime elites do not follow this decision. Why do militaries not support family members or dynastic regime succession?It depends on a number of factors. In the cases I mentioned where the military supports dynastic succession, the commonality seems to be that the dictator established a very elaborate system of control over the military, what is called “coup-proofing.” They create various counter-balancing forces, like the 4th Armored Division in Syria or various militias which also counter the power of the military. Second, they appoint trusted communities—family members or members of the same ethnic or religious groups—to key command posts in the military. It seems that Mugabe hasn’t done that in Zimbabwe for whatever reasons. Militaries that have been subjected to coup-proofing tend to support dynastic succession because if the family is out, they are out of top positions of power.Where dictators cannot coup-proof, there is less chance that the military will support family succession. In Egypt, for example, Mubarak was not able to fill the senior positions of the military with members of his religious minority since he wasn’t from a religious minority, and tribal affiliations were not all that important in Egypt.In these cases, the military will look for someone else to take over, either a military leader, or like in Zimbabwe, where there is a meaningful political party, someone from within the civilian elite coalition. Can coups lead to democracy in countries like Zimbabwe? And if so, under what circumstances?Coups can, of course, lead to democracy but the majority of coups do not. If you look at the data, the number of coups that have led to democracy has increased in the past 20-25 years, but the majority of coups still result in some form of renewed authoritarian rule. There are some examples of “good coups” or “democratizing coups”: Mali in 1991, Burkina Faso in 2003, Niger in 2010, but those are the exceptions.More often, coups either lead to a new authoritarian regime, or they lead to a change in leadership within an existing authoritarian regime, which is perhaps a scenario that is the most likely one in Zimbabwe right now.For a coup to lead to democratization, I think that there must be some other additional external constraints on the military. Mass mobilization seems to be one of the factors that needs to be present in order to move the military, not only towards staging a coup, but also towards institutionalizing democracy. Economic crisis, again, also seems to play a role. Most of these cases of good coups or democratizing coups were coups that took place at a time and in a country where there was strong Western linkage and strong Western leverage. This, of course, not the case with Zimbabwe, where we have strong Chinese linkage and perhaps also some Chinese leverage.More often, coups either lead to a new authoritarian regime, or they lead to a change in leadership within an existing authoritarian regime, which is perhaps a scenario that is the most likely one in Zimbabwe right now.This leads us nicely to our next question: what role do outside actors play in military support for dictators? Was China relevant to what happened in Zimbabwe?What is known is that General Chiwenga, head of the Zimbabwe Defense Forces, visited China the week before the coup, and there are close economic and political ties between China and Zimbabwe that reach back until the late 1970s, when China began to support Mugabe’s guerilla movement against the apartheid regime in South Rhodesia.In terms of trade and investment, China is one of the most important economic actors and partners of Zimbabwe. Of course, there also is close military to military cooperation between Zimbabwe and China, covering aspects like arms trade, arms imports, military assistance, and military to military exchange. China has made clear that it needs economic stability to continue with investments in Zimbabwe.I think that there is no empirical evidence to make the simple argument that “the minister of defense went to China in order to get the okay from China so that he could stage a coup.” Yet it is clear that because China is such an important military and economic partner for Zimbabwe, it seems highly unlikely that the military would stage a coup without thinking that China would at least support such a change. And because it is documented that China has emphasized its interests in political and economic stability in Zimbabwe, if the Zimbabwean military can show or demonstrate to China that the coup will lead to a stable transition, then that creates a kind of incentive for the military to organize and to stage a coup. In a hypothetical case, once there has been a transition to democracy after a coup, what factors are likely to affect successful civilian control of the military after that point? There are a number of very crucial factors. The most crucial factor is probably a united civilian elite. In order to have civilian control over the military you need common consensus among civilian elites that they do not try to court the military. Second, you need some kind of civilian mobilization, voter support, or civil society support for civilian control of the military. Third, robust institutions need to be established. In personalist regimes, the leaders do not institutionalize civilian control of the military – it’s always personal and informal. The fourth factor is how civilian leaders institutionalize their control over the military. Is it a very rapid, big-bang reform where they try to change civil-military relations overnight, or is it an incremental, gradual process? I would argue that the incremental, gradual process is a more promising approach than the swift, rapid, big-bang reform in civil-military relations.A supportive factor in the case of Zimbabwe is that this is Zimbabwe’s first coup. Militaries that do not have a tradition of military intervention in politics are easier to reform than militaries that have a tradition of intervening, of staging coups, or of forming military governments. That is actually a beneficial factor in Zimbabwe.Charles Mangongera’s piece in the Journal of Democracy, “A New Twilight in Zimbabwe: The Military vs. Democracy.”NED Vice President for Studies and Analysis Christopher Walker’s related interview with Mangongera.Mr. Titus Gwemende currently serves as policy advisor to the Netherlands Foreign...Today, authoritarian governments are willfully depriving...The September 2018 edition of the Forum newsletter...June 12, 2014
The Big Question: What Is the Relationship Between Kleptocracy and Authoritarianism?#November 16, 2017#TWEET | SHARE | PDFStable and secure democratic institutions are widely believed to curb kleptocratic practices, as they inherently protect fundamental measures of accountability such as judicial independence, a free press, and a vibrant civil society. While some young or struggling democracies, such as Brazil, exhibit kleptocratic tendencies, the worst kleptocracies in the world—such as Angola, Azerbaijan, Russia, and Equatorial Guinea—fall squarely in the authoritarian category. Yet the connection between authoritarianism and kleptocracy is not simple, and invites additional scrutiny.The International Forum for Democratic Studies asked five leading experts about the relationship between authoritarianism and kleptocracy. (Their answers have been edited for length and clarity, and do not necessarily reflect the views of the National Endowment for Democracy.)State-directed kleptocracy is this century’s brand of authoritarianism, but it is critical to understand that kleptocracy and authoritarianism are mutually supportive and reinforcing activities designed to achieve total control.-Heather A. Conley, Center for Strategic and International StudiesHeather A. Conley is senior vice president for Europe, Eurasia, and the Arctic and director of the Europe Program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS). From 2001 to 2005, she served as deputy assistant secretary of state in the Bureau for European and Eurasian Affairs with responsibilities for U.S. bilateral relations with the countries of northern and central Europe. She is the author of The Kremlin Playbook: Understanding Russian Influence in Central and Eastern Europe.State-directed kleptocracy is this century’s brand of authoritarianism, but it is critical to understand that kleptocracy and authoritarianism are mutually supportive and reinforcing activities designed to achieve total control.  An authoritarian leader and his or her inner circle can secure state-owned and private assets through kleptocratic means, and kleptocratic means can secure control over key government and democratic institutions.In our 2016 report, The Kremlin Playbook, the interplay between kleptocracy (economic capture) and authoritarian behavior (political capture) is described as an “unvirtuous cycle.” When complete, the unvirtuous cycle leads to state capture, which renders a state unable to conduct independent policy action that deviates from the interests of kleptocrats, authoritarians, or the joining of the two (which in this case is the Kremlin).  The enabler of this unvirtuous cycle is corruption, which tragically thrives by using the financial institutions and legal frameworks of advanced democracies.This is the reason today’s modern authoritarian and kleptocratic leaders and their practices are particularly devastating.  Not only does this form of kleptocratic governance – which the Kremlin describes as “sovereign or managed democracy” – challenge the international order, it also devastates the credibility, desirability and moral authority of the liberal democratic model itself.Fortunately, there are two effective policy antidotes to break the cycle of the mutuality between kleptocracy and authoritarianism and, thankfully, these antidotes are at the heart of how liberal democracies function: transparency and accountability.The relationship between authoritarianism, globalization, and kleptocracy changes depending upon whether elites are looking inward into their own polities, or outward into the international community.-Alexander Cooley, Barnard CollegeAlexander Cooley is the Claire Tow Professor of Political Science at Barnard College and Director of Columbia University’s Harriman Institute. His research examines how external actors have shaped the development and sovereignty of the former Soviet states, with a focus on Central Asia and the Caucasus. He is the author of Dictators without Borders: Power and Money in Central Asia. He tweets @CooleyOnEurasia. In Central Asia and parts of Eurasia, the relationship between authoritarianism, globalization, and kleptocracy changes depending upon whether elites are looking inward into their own polities, or outward into the international community. On the one hand, these authoritarians continue to protect their control over state-related resources, industries, and financial flows that provide the material basis for their personal enrichment. They actively conceal their familial looting of the state through the use of secret shell companies and restrict the activities of foreign-funded media or civil society that might expose these activities and otherwise hold them accountable.On the other hand, when looking outwards, these same authoritarians use their ill-begotten wealth to cultivate dense networks of transnational ties in order to secure international political allies and enhance their reputations as respected global citizens. The very wealth that they acquire allows them to purchase luxury properties abroad, spend lavishly on PR firms and lobbyists to influence Western politicians and knowledge centers, and fund charities and cultural organizations that will showcase them as global philanthropists, rather than as local autocrats.21st century authoritarianism cannot be dissociated from kleptocracy.  They have tied the knot, and this elegant couple, in its interactions with the free world, defines the geopolitical configuration of our times.-Charles Davidson, Hudson InstituteCharles Davidson is the executive director of the Kleptocracy Initiative at the Hudson Institute. He is also publisher and CEO of The American Interest, which he co-founded  with Francis Fukuyama in 2005, along with partners Josef Joffe and Walter Russell Mead. Davidson co-founded the think tank Global Financial Integrity in 2006 and is its former Board Chair. He also produced the documentary We’re Not Broke that premiered at the Sundance Film Festival in 2012. Authoritarian Russia invades Ukraine, authoritarian China threatens militarily.  Both countries exert all sorts of soft power nouveau influence, which has seemingly reached a culmination, for now, in significant influence on the most recent presidential election in the United States. Beyond the salient national security threats posed by the Russia/China axis, authoritarianism has been a growth industry for at least the last 10 years or so, entrenching itself, sharing best practices, and actively working to undermine free and democratic nations.There is an extraordinary dimension to the authoritarian surge in this early 20th century. All the authoritarian regimes at war with freedom and democracy around the world are structured along a kleptocratic model whereby those who govern, usually a very small group, family, or even individual, loot their own country, and store the proceeds in free and democratic nations whose rule of law serves as a critical element of asset protection.21st century authoritarianism cannot be dissociated from kleptocracy.  They have tied the knot, and this elegant couple, in its interactions with the free world, defines the geopolitical configuration of our times.One of the best ways to fight kleptocracy is to institutionalize a genuine democracy in which the people can throw rotten rulers out of office and the judicial system can act independently to go after public officials who have erased the line between public interest and private greed.-Larry Diamond, Hoover InstitutionLarry Diamond is a senior fellow at the Hoover Institution and at the Freeman Spogli Institute for International Studies, where he also directs the Center for Democracy, Development, and the Rule of Law.  He is the founding co-editor of the Journal of Democracy and also serves as Senior Consultant at the International Forum for Democratic Studies of the National Endowment for Democracy. He tweets @LarryDiamond  and blogs at “Democracy Square.”Kleptocracy is literally rule by thieves.  It is a type of political system in which the rulers systematically plunder the wealth of the country for their own personal benefit, while making use of international connections to perpetuate, protect, launder, and enjoy their ill-gotten gains. In theory a democracy can also be a kleptocracy, but there are powerful reasons why the most extreme and obvious kleptocracies of the world are invariably authoritarian regimes.By definition, a liberal democracy’s strong rule of law and reasonably effective mechanisms of accountability prevent and rule out systematic plunder by the country’s rulers. Certainly, there have been many instances historically of tentative and low-quality democracies that were pervasively corrupt.  As with any concept, kleptocracy is slippery, and it is hard to know where to draw the line between kleptocracy and a system that is simply highly corrupt.  But different measures of corruption show the same stunning pattern.  Most of the least corrupt countries of the world are liberal democracies.  And almost all of the most corrupt (and generally, we can say, kleptocratic) countries of the world are authoritarian regimes.The data tell a compelling story.  One of the best ways to fight kleptocracy is to institutionalize a genuine democracy in which the people can throw rotten rulers out of office and the judicial system can act independently to go after public officials who have erased the line between public interest and private greed.It is urgent to look at kleptocracy this way: That something smells at the top has not been lost on ordinary people in Western democracies, who have seen elite fortunes roaring along as theirs stagnated and whose faith in public institutions has plummeted.– Janine R. Wedel, George Mason UniversityJanine R. Wedel, University Professor in the Schar School of Policy and Government at George Mason University, is an award-winning author who writes about governance, corruption, influence elites, and accountability through the lens of an anthropologist. She is the author of Unaccountable: How the Establishment Corrupted Our Finances, Freedom, and Politics and Created an Outsider Class and Shadow Elite: How the World’s New Power Brokers Undermine Democracy, Government, and the Free Market. She tweets @janinewedel.It is difficult to imagine a kleptocratic regime that doesn’t depend on authoritarian means to extract resources, or an authoritarian regime that doesn’t use expansive power to boost a leader’s personal portfolio. But kleptocracy is nearly always associated with repressive states and that, I believe, is a mistake. As a social anthropologist studying influence elites, I have watched a subtler kind of kleptocratic behavior take hold in Western democratic states. Call this kleptocracy in a Brooks Brothers suit. Is the German head of state who advocated a Russian-German pipeline, only to leave office and, within weeks, take a lucrative job with the Russian pipeline not behaving like a kleptocrat? Some might argue that such actions are not kleptocratic, as they do not involve direct appropriation of state funds or assets.I argue that among the most potent assets a leader has is the power embodied in the office, especially in democracies, and that that power endures after the leadership role ends.  It is urgent to look at kleptocracy this way: That something smells at the top has not been lost on ordinary people in Western democracies, who have seen elite fortunes roaring along as theirs stagnated and whose faith in public institutions has plummeted. Elites, who have generally ignored their plight, are prime practitioners in the new, systemic corruption that has arisen over the past several decades. Their corruption has helped foment the anti-establishment movements we see today, the dynamics and repercussions of which threaten democracy. “The Big Question: Kleptocracy and Russia’s Foreign Policy”Melissa Aten’s July 2018 Q&A with Rafael Marques de Morais on “Kleptocracy in Angola”Melissa Aten’s June 2017 Q&A with Judge Mark Wolf on “Kleptocracy and the International Anti-Corruption Court” Image Credit: Sajinka2/Pixabay The June edition features seven articles written by members of the APSA-Comparative...FEB 24, 2014
Issue Brief: Distinguishing Disinformation from Propaganda, Misinformation, and “Fake News”#October 17, 2017#TWEET | SHARE | PDFDisinformation is a relatively new word. Most observers trace it back to the Russian word dezinformatsiya, which Soviet planners in the 1950s defined as “dissemination (in the press, on the radio, etc.) of false reports intended to mislead public opinion.” Others suggest that the earliest use of the term originated in 1930s Nazi Germany. In either case, it is much younger (and less commonly used) than ‘propaganda,’ which originated in the 1600s and generally connotes the selective use of information for political effect.Whether and to what degree these terms overlap is subject to debate. Some define propaganda as the use of non-rational arguments to either advance or undermine a political ideal, and use disinformation as an alternative name for undermining propaganda. Others consider them to be separate concepts altogether. One popular distinction holds that disinformation also describes politically motivated messaging designed explicitly to engender public cynicism, uncertainty, apathy, distrust, and paranoia, all of which disincentivize citizen engagement and mobilization for social or political change. “Misinformation,” meanwhile, generally refers to the inadvertent sharing of false information.Analysts generally agree that disinformation is always purposeful and not necessarily composed of outright lies or fabrications. It can be composed of mostly true facts, stripped of context or blended with falsehoods to support the intended message, and is always part of a larger plan or agenda. In the Russian context, observers have described its use to pursue Moscow’s foreign policy goals through a “4D” offensive: dismiss an opponent’s claims or allegations, distort events to serve political purposes, distract from one’s own activities, and dismay those who might otherwise oppose one’s goals.Analysts generally agree that disinformation is always purposeful and not necessarily composed of outright lies or fabrications. It can be composed of mostly true facts, stripped of context or blended with falsehoods to support the intended message, and is always part of a larger plan or agenda.”The reemerging interest in disinformation is not because such techniques are novel. There are similarities between the contemporary 4D model and, for example, Soviet active measures. Rather, a growing consensus asserts that while the use of disinformation is not new, the digital revolution has greatly enhanced public vulnerability to manipulation by information—a trend which is predicted to continue.In part, these changes have been wrought by the advent of new social media platforms and their growing dominance over advertising revenues. This shift in the media funding environment has weakened traditional media gatekeepers, changed incentives for content providers, and promoted the rise of unprofessional and/or unscrupulous outlets capable of drawing large audiences at a low cost. As digital advertising assumes an ever-larger role in shaping news consumption, targeted advertising allows for more sophisticated forms of propaganda: for example, in September of 2017, Facebook disclosed that roughly 3,000 ads related to divisive US political issues were purchased by a network of 470 accounts and pages suspected to be run out of Russia. The company says that at least a quarter of those ads were geographically targeted. Twitter later deleted two hundred accounts linked to those same Facebook accounts and pages and revealed that in 2016, the Russian state-funded broadcaster RT spent $274,100 on advertising targeting users in the United States.Research suggests the total scale of “low quality political information” on those platforms during the 2016 US elections was much larger, particularly in swing states. The degree of Russian influence on this market for digital disinformation is unknown; post-election, researchers are launching new efforts to track and analyze it.Although there is no universal definition, fake news generally refers to misleading content found on the internet, especially on social media.”The role of disinformation in recent elections has given rise to another distinct, but related, term: ‘fake news.’Although there is no universal definition, fake news generally refers to misleading content found on the internet, especially on social media. One analysis lays out five types of fake news, including intentionally deceptive content, jokes taken at face value, large-scale hoaxes, slanted reporting of real facts, and coverage where the truth may be uncertain or contentious. These are not new:  an example of fake news from 2011 involves websites masquerading as real news organizations to spread false information about the health benefits of acai berries.Much of this content is produced by for-profit websites and Facebook pages gaming the platform for advertising revenue. By producing tailored false content targeted at the views, concerns, and preferences of social media users, these pages can generate tens of thousands of interactions and thousands of dollars a month. In 2015, Facebook began taking steps to curtail this content, which it called a form of “news feed spam.” By 2016, it became clear the problem was growing out of control. Fabricated and fiercely partisan political content—much of it produced abroad for profit—in some instances outpaced engagement with credible mainstream news outlets.Facebook initially downplayed the potential influence of fake news, although it also pledged to pursue a response involving expanded partnerships with fact-checkers, increased emphasis on detection and reporting, warning labels for untrustworthy stories, and a crackdown on for-profit fake news pages. Twitter also reacted, developing an experimental prototype feature to allow users to report “fake news” and exploring the use of machine learning to detect automated accounts spreading political content.More often than not, fake news does not meet the definition of disinformation or propaganda. Its motives are usually financial, not political, and it is usually not tied to a larger agenda. One attempt to classify various types of misleading and manipulative news content separates misinformation (inadvertent sharing of false information) from disinformation, which is deliberate, and arranges examples by motivation and degree of deception. Most of the fake news described above falls somewhere in the middle: not inadvertent, but motivated by profit rather than influence. To the degree that its purpose can be described as political, fake news begins to resemble more insidious content.Fake news’ political prominence does have lessons for analysts of disinformation. Fake news draws audiences because it validates their political preconceptions and worldviews, capitalizing on media consumers’ confirmation bias. Many argue that because social media curates content according to user preferences, it has a polarizing effect that leaves consumers more vulnerable to manipulation in this way. Political actors have been able to use this to their advantage by producing incendiary content that spreads rapidly through grassroots online networks (some call this “political astroturfing”).More often than not, fake news does not meet the definition of disinformation or propaganda. Its motives are usually financial, not political, and it is usually not tied to a larger agenda.”Some analysts also differentiate between various types of “information campaigns”—organized attempts to communicate with large groups of individuals—which may include marketing, public affairs, and public diplomacy. All of these terms are worth disentangling from each other and from propaganda and disinformation writ large.Marketing and public relations rely on a mix of facts, opinions, and emotional cues to persuade audiences and build affinity between individuals and brands or organizations. As promotional activities meant to augment or protect the reputation of the messenger, their goals may be commercial or political, or they may simply aim to generate publicity. Similarly promotional is public diplomacy, which states utilize to represent their viewpoints to foreign audiences and promote positive associations with that country among foreign publics. Done well, public diplomacy distinguishes itself from propaganda by never intentionally spreading false information or relying on non-rational means of persuasion (though marketing and public relations, of course, may rely on such non-rational devices).Marketing, public relations, public diplomacy, and similar information campaigns are all related to the field of “strategic communication,” broadly defined as the purposeful use of information and messaging to advance the mission of a given organization, be it a corporate, government, non-profit, or military actor. In the military context, a 2007 paper from the U.S. Army War College emphasizes that strategic communication in a military context aims to influence adversaries, reassure allies, and persuade publics. Because it may be impossible to deceive one of these audiences without deceiving others, some advocate that “deception should be rigorously forbidden in strategic communication” and that the use of disinformation should never fall under the rubric of strategic communication.Done well, public diplomacy distinguishes itself from propaganda by never intentionally spreading false information or relying on non-rational means of persuasion.”Some argue the intent of the messenger is crucial to distinguishing between different types of messages. This makes it difficult to draw a bright, clear line between marketing, public relations, and public diplomacy, on one side, and propaganda and disinformation on the other. This is especially true when the content in question includes both objective fact and subjective interpretation but no clear falsehood, because it may be unclear whether the message reflects a genuine perspective or an intent to mislead. When content does include falsehoods, it may be unclear whether they are accidental or purposeful.If an information campaign uses falsehoods and emotional appeals not to persuade or attract but to disrupt, divide, confuse, or otherwise damage target audiences’ understanding or political cohesion, it more closely aligns with disinformation and its undermining function. This is not solely the realm of the state: many activities undertaken by non-state actors may also fit this description.If an information campaign uses falsehoods and emotional appeals not to persuade or attract but to disrupt, divide, confuse, or otherwise damage target audiences’ understanding or political cohesion, it more closely aligns with disinformation and its undermining function.”Information campaigns with these goals in mind are now sometimes referred to as “information operations,” a term until recently used primarily by defense officials in referring broadly to the use of communications in military operations. In April 2017, Facebook described “information (or influence) operations” on the platform, which aim “to achieve a strategic and/or geopolitical outcome” using “a combination of methods, such as false news, disinformation, or networks of fake accounts (false amplifiers) aimed at manipulating public opinion.” In the run-up to the 2017 French presidential election, Facebook deleted 30,000 fake French accounts from the platform, providing a sense of the scale these operations can reach.In that election, an information operation (likely of Russian origin) released hacked documents just before the beginning of a legally mandated election news blackout in order to damage the campaign of Emmanuel Macron, the eventual winner. The manipulation of information has been a feature of Syria’s civil war since the conflict’s beginning. Research from a diverse set of country case studies suggests that a wide array of political, military, and private actors now routinely use social media to manipulate public opinion. Italy’s populist Five Star Movement, for instance, is tied to a large constellation of online disinformation outlets. Taiwanese democracy must grapple with both domestic and cross-strait sources of disinformation. Information operations, including those involving the use of disinformation during elections, are likely to remain a tool of political influence well into the foreseeable future. Brief prepared by Dean Jackson, International Forum for Democratic Studies.Image Credit: kaboompics/Pixabay (Creative Commons) Dean Jackson’s July 2017 interview with Phil Howard on “Computational Propaganda’s Challenge to Democracy.”International Forum Director Shanthi Kalathil’s March 2017 report on China’s influence in the information space for the Center for International Media Assistance, “Beyond the Great Firewall: How China Became a Global Information Power.”Nathaniel Persily’s 2016 Journal of Democracy article, “Can Democracy Survive the Internet?”National Endowment for Democracy Vice President for Studies & Analysis Christopher Walker’s interviews on Russian disinformation and Chinese propaganda with Peter Pomerantsev and Anne-Marie Brady, respectively.The Washington Post editorial board discussed the findings of Authoritarianism...Alexander Cooley, Steven Heydemann, Ronald Deibert,...The International Forum for Democratic Studies' October...Brutal Censorship: Targeting Journalists in the North...The National Endowment for Democracy (NED) will present...
Globalization Chinese-Style: A JoD Book Review#October 16, 2017#China’s “Belt and Road Initiative” to link Asia, Europe, and Africa through a vast network of infrastructure projects represents an ambitious undertaking, the implications of which are not yet well understood.In the October 2017 issue of the Journal of Democracy, International Forum for Democratic Studies director Shanthi Kalathil reviews Nadege Rolland’s monograph, China’s Eurasian Century? Political and Strategic Implications of the Belt and Road Initiative (National Bureau of Asian Research, 2017).  Through her research of Chinese-language sources, including interviews with Chinese Communist Party officials and Chinese policy analysts, Rolland examines the drivers and objectives behind China’s Belt and Road Initiative.To  see the [Belt and Road Initiative] as merely a wish list of construction projects or China’s latest plan for Eurasian connectivity is to miss the forest for the trees, Rolland suggests. In fact, the plan represents a direct strike at the rules-based system championed by democracies and, ultimately, at the liberal international order.Shanthi Kalathil, “Globalization Chinese-Style” Photo Credit: Wikimedia/Creative CommonsIs liberal democracy in trouble? What are Brexit's implications for the U.K....Alexander Cooley, Steven Heydemann, Ronald Deibert,...Twentieth Anniversary Celebration - Journal of Democracy
NED Welcomes 2017-18 Cohort of Penn Kemble Fellows#September 1, 2017#The National Endowment for Democracy (NED) is pleased to announce the selection of its 2017-18 Penn Kemble Forum Democracy Fellows. This group of 31 rising leaders represents a dynamic cross-section of young foreign policy professionals from Capitol Hill, the Executive branch, the security sector, journalists covering international affairs, and the private sector, as well as think tanks and democracy practitioners.The Penn Kemble Forum on Democracy is a NED initiative that promotes bipartisan conversation between these young professionals, opening the opportunity for them to share ideas across sectors and explore the role of democracy and human rights within the context of a broad range of policy questions.The Forum convenes monthly for off-the-record dinner conversations led by foreign policy experts, government officials (past and present), and democracy practitioners. In 2015-16, Penn Kemble Fellows met with Dr. Francis Fukuyama, Ambassador Zalmay Khalilzad, Azar Nafisi (Reading Lolita in Tehran), and many others. “There is a crying need to develop a new generation of young leaders in this country and around the world who, like Penn Kemble, are animated by democratic ideas and values,” said NED President Carl Gershman. The Fellows will start the year with a half-day retreat at the NED offices, followed by a reception on September 19.The Forum is named for Penn Kemble, one of the democracy movement’s most committed activists and strategists. His political evolution took him from early involvement in the civil rights movement, through engagement with the U.S. labor movement in combating Communism, to more recent initiatives, including the Transatlantic Democracy Network and Civitas, an international program to promote civic education. He served as deputy and acting director of the United States Information Agency in the Clinton administration, and Secretary of State Albright appointed him U.S. Representative to the Community of Democracies. In 2002, Secretary of State Powell appointed him to lead a group to investigate slavery and human trafficking in Sudan. He passed away in October 2005.Learn more about the Penn Kemble Forum on DemocracyAaron Allen, Office of Rep. Juan Vargas (D-CA)Mitch Armbruster, Xator CorporationFrancisco Bencosme, U.S. Senate Foreign Relations CommitteeScott Cullinane, U.S. House Foreign Affairs Committee Elizabeth Cutler, U.S. Department of StateDr. Melissa Duell, U.S. Department of StateAndrew Eilts, Opportunity Alliance ServicesDaniella Foster, HiltonJoseph Geni, International Monetary FundJustin Goldman, BAE SystemsElizabeth Huddler, Chemonics International Inc.Graham Jenkins, U.S. Department of DefenseDr. Catherine Kelly, American Bar Association Rule of Law InitiativeImran Khowaja, TriVisionSuzanne Kianpour, BBC NewsEmily Manning, U.S. Senate Foreign Relations CommitteeDr. Osvaldo Gómez Martínez, U.S. Foreign Agricultural ServiceAnnie Medaglia, Bain & Co.Yery Park, Inter-American Development BankSerwat Perwaiz, WikistratCaitlin Poling, Office of Sen. David Perdue (R-GA)Dr. Patrick Quirk, U.S. Department of StateKedenard Raymond, U.S. Department of StateTheodore Reinert, German Marshall Fund of the United StatesJohn Vollertsen, U.S. Department of StateDr. Meir Walters, U.S. Department of StateRiley Walters, Heritage FoundationJustin Wein, Office of Rep. David Price (D-NC)Maeve Whelan-Wuest, Brookings InstitutionAli Wyne, RAND CorporationAdam Yezerski, U.S. Senate Committee on Appropriations
The Fight for Democracy: A New Era of Competition#July 13, 2017#NED Vice President for Studies and Analysis Christopher Walker in a new issue of Konrad Adenauer Stiftung’s International Reports discusses how authoritarian regimes have made dramatic inroads in challenging the integrity and prestige of the democratic systems of the West.Taken together, the forces working against democracy are more powerful than at any time since the end of the Cold War. In taking the initiative against democracy, authoritarians have shown a clear ability to learn and improve their methods of repression and manipulation, both at home and abroad. Leading authoritarian regimes devote extraordinary resources to advancing their preferred worldview and interests – through international media outlets, the development of powerful state-backed digital capabilities, state-friendly policy institutes, and cultural outreach – something that has been underappreciated by the democracies. Photo Credit: Tony Gentile, Reuters (as appears on the cover of  International Reporting)The July 2018 "quick hits" newsletter provides updates on recent events and...In this episode of Democracy Ideas, Peter Pomerantsev...Shanthi Kalathil delves into China's unprecedented...NED Vice President for Studies and Analysis Christopher...The “internet of things” is made up of device networks...The National Endowment for Democracy’s International Forum for Democratic...
National Endowment for Democracy deplores Chinese government treatment of Liu Xiaobo#June 29, 2017#.embed-container { position: relative; padding-bottom: 56.25%; height: 0; overflow: hidden; max-width: 100%; } .embed-container iframe, .embed-container object, .embed-container embed { position: absolute; top: 0; left: 0; width: 100%; height: 100%; }FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASECONTACT:  Jane Riley Jacobsen, jane@ned.org, 202-378-9700WASHINGTON, DC – The National Endowment for Democracy (NED) deplores the unconscionable medical neglect suffered by Nobel Peace Prize Laureate Liu Xiaobo during his unjust imprisonment since 2009 for his efforts to advance democratic reform in China.  It was announced this week that Liu would be granted medical parole due to terminal, late-stage liver cancer.  Liu was the co-recipient of NED’s 2014 Democracy Award along with acclaimed legal scholar Xu Zhiyong, who remains in prison, pending the completion of his four-year sentence on July 15. “Liu Xiaobo is one of the great heroes of democracy, in the tradition of Feng Lizhi and Andrei Sakharov,” said NED president Carl Gershman.  “His imprisonment and cruel treatment by the Chinese government is a moral and political outrage.  Liu Xiaobo embodies the dream of a great China with genuine moral authority far better than do the country’s current leaders, who fear the eloquent and independent voice that Liu represents.  We pray for his health, admire his immense courage and integrity, and stand in solidarity with his hope for a democratic China.”Liu Xiaobo, who won the Nobel Peace Prize in 2010, was unable to receive the prize due to an 11-year prison sentence for his critical writings and role in launching Charter 08. The declaration calling for political reforms and human rights published in 2008 quickly garnered over 10,000 signatories from throughout China. Liu Xiaobo’s writing and publishing inspired an entire generation in China and played a major role in advancing democratic ideas and values. Among his many contributions were his work as editor of Democratic China magazine for several years until his arrest, and his tenure as president of the Independent Chinese PEN Center from 2003 to 2007. Both organizations received annual NED grants for many years.While the Endowment welcomes Liu’s medical parole, NED is deeply concerned about Liu’s welfare and urges the Chinese government to unconditionally release him and allow Liu and his wife Liu Xia to seek medical treatment wherever they wish.  NED stands in solidarity with Liu Xiaobo, Liu Xia, and all those who courageously seek a democratic future for the Chinese people.
Sen. Marco Rubio’s Message to NED’s 2017 Democracy Awardees#June 8, 2017#The Senator congratulates the activists and honors the legacy of President Reagan’s Westminster Speech..embed-container { position: relative; padding-bottom: 56.25%; height: 0; overflow: hidden; max-width: 100%; } .embed-container iframe, .embed-container object, .embed-container embed { position: absolute; top: 0; left: 0; width: 100%; height: 100%; }Claudia Escobar is a former magistrate of the Court of Appeals of Guatemala...2018 Democracy Award will honors civil society movement...The National Endowment for Democracy is using its 2017...2018 Democracy Award will honors civil society movement...2018 Democracy Award will honors civil society movement...2018 Democracy Award will honors civil society movement for human rights and...
Vin Weber’s Testimony at the Hearing on the Importance of U.S. Democracy Assistance#May 10, 2017#Testimony to Senate Appropriations Committee,  Subcommittee on Foreign Operations Appropriations  The Honorable Vin WeberCo-Vice Chairman, The National Endowment for DemocracyMay 9, 2017I want to begin by thanking you, Senator Graham, and Ranking Member Leahy for holding this important hearing today. Speaking on behalf of the National Endowment for Democracy and its new board chair, Judy Shelton, I also want to thank the Subcommittee for its unwavering support of NED and its mission.  We’re proud that the Subcommittee has recognized that NED is “uniquely positioned to lead a strategic response” to the grave threats facing democracy in today’s world.  With funds provided by the Subcommittee for this purpose, NED has begun to implement the response to these threats, among them the subversion of the information space by Russia and other autocracies, the repression of civil society, the rise of violent extremist movements, the growing influence of kleptocratic regimes, and the failure of democratic transitions in the Middle East and other regions.In its enumeration of NED’s unparalleled institutional assets, the Subcommittee has rightly noted NED’s decades of experience in tackling the toughest political challenges, its core institutes, and its global grants program and activist networks. I want to call attention to an additional asset that accounts for NED’s success, and that is its nongovernmental character.  NED’s independence has enabled it to respond quickly and effectively to rapidly changing problems.  It also makes it possible for NED to connect directly to the brave people who are at the cutting edge of the democracy struggles in the world. While NED is of course subject to congressional oversight, its mission is not to advance a particular U.S. policy or an agenda made in Washington.  It is to help build the institutions of a free society that will make it possible for people “to choose their own way, to develop their own culture, to reconcile their own differences through peaceful means.”Those words, Mr. Chairman, were spoken by President Ronald Reagan’s in his famed address to the British Parliament that launched the National Endowment for Democracy.  June 8 will mark the 35th anniversary of that seminal speech, when President Reagan declared that “We must be staunch in our conviction that freedom is not the sole prerogative of a lucky few, but the inalienable and universal right of all human beings.”  NED embodies that core American belief.Since NED was founded more than three decades ago, aiding democracy has become a bedrock foundational principle of America’s approach to the world.  Such work enjoys that standing because it advances America’s most important interests and also affirms our highest ideals. There are some people who believe that we have to choose between defending our interests and affirming our values.  They pose a false and dangerous dichotomy, since our interests and values are mutually reinforcing, as is maintaining both our military strength and our moral vision. President Reagan spoke to this issue in the Westminster Address with great eloquence and force. “Our military strength,” he said, “is a prerequisite to peace, but let it be clear we maintain this strength in the hope it will never be used.  For the ultimate determinant in the struggle now going on for the world will not be bombs and rockets, but a test of wills and ideas, a trial of spiritual resolve: the values we hold, the beliefs we cherish, the ideals to which we are dedicated.” These words continue to resonate today, especially among the people on the front lines of the struggle for democracy who benefit from NED’s support.Here’s what a few of them have said in messages prompted by this hearing:Mr. Chairman, if we cease supporting such brave people, our country will lose contact with its roots and values, and the result will be devastating for our national interests and moral identity.  So with your help, let us carry on with this worthy and absolutely essential work.  Four Korean organizations working to document human rights abuses, empower defectors,...In Ho Park is the head of North Korean research at...This month, we celebrate the 35th anniversary of the...The Voice of Freedom: Improving Radio Programs ...The democratic struggles that have been waged in this...North Korea's Human Catastrophe
New CIMA Report: Beyond the Great Firewall: How China Became a Global Information Power#March 7, 2017#Now over a decade old, the “Great Firewall of China” has been dubbed the world’s largest system of censorship. China, however, is no longer content to limit its reach to a domestic audience. Without much fanfare, the Chinese government has turned its focus outward, seeking to take its influence over the information environment global. In her CIMA report, Shanthi Kalathil delves into China’s unprecedented attempts to harness the global information ecosystem, primarily through three avenues: shaping international news media, guiding the evolution of the global Internet, and influencing global culture through Hollywood. What emerges is an altered understanding of the ways in which authoritarian regimes like China can wield information resources as power in the global arena.Read the full report.International Forum for Democratic Studies Executive Director Christopher Walker...As part of its "Big Question" feature, the International...Carl Gershman, President of NED, spoke at "Exploring...Johan Lagerkvist is professor of Chinese language and...Christopher Walker testified before the U.S.-China...China at the Tipping Point?
REMARKS BY THE SECRETARY GENERAL OF THE OAS at Latin America & The Liberal World Order#February 2, 2017#Democracy and Human Rights are under strain in some parts of the hemisphere – but the OAS has unique instruments and tools to ensure their eventual triumph over inequality, social exclusion, corruption, the erosion of political rights, and the closure of civic space.Dear friends,I want to thank Christopher Sabatini of Global Americans and our hosts here at the National Endowment for Democracy for the opportunity to address you this morning.The Latin America we recognize today is radically different from only a few decades ago, when authoritarian or military regimes were the norm.Today, democracy is the most common form of government in the Americas.We have built a Hemisphere on a foundation of the shared values we believe in – a vision of inclusiveness, democracy, universal freedoms and human rights.These principles – the very core of the OAS – are clearly articulated in our founding documents – the OAS Charter, the American Charter of Human Rights, the Inter-American Conventions, and the Inter-American Democratic Charter.The promise and opportunity of the Hemisphere lie in these shared values of more democracy, rights, security and prosperity for all. This is why I’ve made the theme of “More Rights for More People” the centerpiece of my administration.The OAS is a forum created by and for Member States to come together in meaningful dialogue to achieve the fulfillment of this shared vision for the Americas.We are meeting today, in Washington, DC, the capital of the United States and where the headquarters of the OAS calls home. In 1889, at the invitation of the Government of the United States we began the process we recognize as the Inter-American system, a process that continues uninterrupted, to this day.That first international Conference of American States was held to discuss and recommend “for adoption to their respective Governments some plan of arbitration for the settlement of disagreements and disputes that may hereafter arise between them, and for considering questions relating to the intercourse and means of direct communication between said countries.”Eighteen American States took part in the first conference, and since the forum has grown to include all 35 States in the Americas, looking at issues from inter-state relations, to commercial issues, to border disputes, to collective security. Today, these are organized under the four pillars of the OAS; democracy, human rights, integral development and multidimensional security.The purpose of this institution is to guide and facilitate the relationship between countries in our hemisphere. We are as strong as our strongest member and as weak as our weakest link.The United States played an integral role by bringing us all together. This is the only regional institution that includes all 35 states in the Americas. Each Member State plays an essential role in making these relationships work and just as inter-state relations have their strengths and weaknesses, so does this institution.This Hemisphere remains one of the most unequal in the world, and its citizens are tired of the exclusion, weary of racism, persecution, and sterile conflicts that drag-on needlessly.Over the years we have collectively identified and negotiated these values, creating agreements that guide this institution and our interactions with one another. Each Member States chose to negotiate and sign onto these principles defining who we are, what we believe, and how we interact with one another.As Member States and as citizens, we have a responsibility to ensure that these rights are protected. Our members states are each unique; be it size, population, demographics, wealth or influence. For some, an individual state’s actions can affect the entire continent.We built this institution to help close these divides and find common interests where we can work together. Multilateral institutions make collective effort feasible.Collective action offers legitimacy where the efforts of an individual country may come up short. In turn, governments are more likely to participate if there is an institutional framework or collective interest, over an individual ask.Individual Member States determine how well this institution works.If Member States want a strong OAS, and a strong relationship between American States they will create one. If they want to isolate themselves, and focus on unilateral interests, no longer cooperating with one another, they will do so.We are at an interesting moment in modern history. There appears to be a growing appetite for populist politics in some of the most developed economies around the world.We must resist a shift towards isolationism, where communities retreat into what and who they know, and instead renew our commitments to pluralism, openness and inclusivity.This also holds true about the state of democracy. Across the hemisphere, countries use a diverse set of democratic systems, at different stages of political maturity and consolidation.Democracy is a process, not an end. There is no single solution that will work for everyone.Today’s democracies are stronger, offering better social protection with more integrated economies. However, we cannot take this for granted. Citizens have a responsibility as much as a right. It is more than an election, it is what comes after.Democracy is freedom of expression, association, and assembly. It is a transparent and accountable government that serves the people. It is an empowered citizen – strong civil society – a vocal, engaged opposition – a vibrant, independent media – an independent judiciary – and a security apparatus that is trusted by and accountable to the people.Most importantly, it requires a tolerance of dissent.We cannot become complacent because there are real and present risks in many countries across the region. With growing demands from citizens throughout the Hemisphere, the principal threats and challenges are a result of weak government institutions and poor social services.Weak rule of law and growing insecurity, inequality and social exclusion; political polarization, corruption, the erosion of political and human rights, weak political parties, and the closure of civic space all undermine democratic consolidation.Corruption has proven to be a central challenge to the success of the region’s growth and stability because it not only affects citizens economically but undermine the public’s trust in the governments elected to serve them.Across the Americas, political corruption has mobilized citizens to take to the streets to demand transparency and accountability, and end impunity. Political campaigns have been fought, and won over it.In Honduras, the bold and ambitious Mission to Support the Fight against Corruption and Impunity in Honduras, the MACCIH, was established to respond to the people protests and indignation over government corruption.We must continue fight every day against corruption to address the enormous inequalities our citizens face and ensure more rights.Fundamental freedoms, human rights, and democracy do not only exist when it is convenient. They must exist always. You have to care as much as about your opponent’s rights to express their views, as you do about your own.This is why one of the most important roles that the OAS plays in the Hemisphere is its facilitation of dialogue for the prevention, management and resolution of crisis and conflict. This is why we can also offer a voice to those who have been excluded the democratic processes in their own countries.Dialogue is not simply about words. In order for dialogue to be effective, it must also be accompanied by action, with results that come in a reasonable time frame.A lack of dialogue is the first sign of failure in a political system because dialogue cannot exist when voices are not heard, or when voices have been silenced.In Venezuela, we are witness to a process of dialogue that did not serve to help strengthen democracy in the short-term.This past fall, the opposition in Venezuela had galvanized the citizenry behind a constitutional solution to the political crisis through the recall referendum. This constitutional solution was not achieved.The International Community had used the Inter-American Democratic Charter and the democratic clause in MERCOSUR to help pressure the regime in Caracas regime to find a democratic solution.With this momentum, the Opposition agreed to a new phase of the dialogue, and this phase dialogue has moved backwards- the National Assembly lost even more power through decisions of the Supreme Court; the total amount of political prisoners has grown; Inflation continues to grow to unprecedented levels, while the GDP is in freefall; and the last opportunity for a constitutional solution – the recall referendum has passed.The insincere dialogue process has failed instead only serving to perpetuate the conditions.The ethical and moral values that we define in the Inter-American Democratic Charter, the OAS Charter or the Inter-American Convention on Human Rights, mean nothing, if we do not make them a daily reality for the people of the Americas.When there are violations, we have an obligation to address them. Words are not enough; we must be prepared to act- Especially when it is difficult to do so.Jose Antonio Marina says that the reason our societies fail is because we develop unjust societies. When we lose these values, we all lose; society loses. This is why I took the job of Secretary General. It is my responsibility to champion and protect these values at the core of this institution, and at the very heart of the Americas.We can achieve more rights for more people and I take this responsibility to heart.The OAS, this community of states, is vital to ensuring the fullest possible observance of human rights in the Hemisphere, and an essential instrument for safeguarding democracy.We have created an institution with the mechanisms and tools to champion and defend these rights and values. Now Member States must choose to enforce them.The June 2019 edition of the Forum newsletter features new content, event recaps,...Journalist and political commentator Raul Peñaranda...Digital Security and Press Freedom in Latin America
Journal of Democracy October 2016 Issue: The Specter Haunting Europe#October 20, 2016#When Karl Marx proclaimed in 1848 that “a specter is haunting Europe,” he gave it a name–communism. The specter haunting Europe today does not have so clear an identity. It consists of political tendencies that are called by a variety of names, are found on both the right and the left, and are typically anti-establishment, anti-immigrant, anti-globalization, anti-EU, anti-American, and sometimes openly anti-democratic.“The Specter Haunting Europe”Seven essays under this heading address the growing threats to Europe’s liberal democracies. In “Distinguishing Liberal Democracy’s Challengers,” Takis Pappas opens the discussion by mapping out the landscape of parties–antidemocrats,” “nativists,” and “populists”–that are challenging Europe’s liberal-democratic consensus. Ivan Krastev concludes the section with “The Unraveling of the Post-1989 Order,” a far-ranging set of reflections that call for a new understanding of the post-Cold War era and explain why the migration issue is at the center of the current European crisis. In between are essays on Germany, France, and Poland, on the decline of the European left, and on the especially severe regression of liberal democracy in East-Central Europe.“Iraq’s Year of Rage”“Iraqis are fed up,” Mieczysław P. Boduszyński writes. “Even as they wage war on ISIS they are also battling their own country’s corrupt and ineffective political elite.” Since 2015, Iraqis of all ethnic and sectarian stripes have been turning out en masse to protest against their political elite. Boduszyński explains why.The October issue also features:For the complete Table of Contents, please visit www.journalofdemocracy.org. Photo: Leon Yaakov/Flickr2011 Democracy AwardAcceptance Speech of Jamel BettaiebIvan Krastev explained why illiberal and anti-Western...Dean Jackson of the International Forum for Democratic...Read the Challenge of Resurgent Authoritarianism: Can...He addressed the struggle for democracy and the rule...This panel discussion will examine the essential benchmarks for credible elections...
NED Launches Third Cohort of Penn Kemble Forum#September 26, 2016#On September 21, 2016, the Endowment welcomed its third cohort of Penn Kemble Forum on Democracy Fellows with a panel discussion between Francis Fukuyama and Larry Diamond. The conversation was moderated by 2015-16 Penn Kemble alumna Ruth Smith. The Penn Kemble Forum is a NED initiative that promotes bipartisan conversation between young foreign policy leaders on a range of issues, and is an opportunity to share ideas across sectors and explore the role of democracy and human rights within the context of a broad range of policy questions. The Forum convenes monthly for off-the-record dinner conversations led by foreign policy experts, government officials (past and present), and democracy practitioners. In 2015-16, Penn Kemble Fellows met with Ambassador Melanne Verveer, Azar Nafisi (Reading Lolita in Tehran), and many others. Click here for a complete list of this year’s Fellows“There is a crying need to develop a new generation of young people in this country and around the world who, like Penn Kemble, are animated by democratic ideas and values,” said NED President Carl Gershman in his remarks to the group. The Forum is named for Penn Kemble, one of the democracy movement’s most committed activists and strategists. His political evolution took him from early involvement in the young socialist and civil rights movements, through engagement with the U.S. labor movement in combating Communism, especially within Central America, to more recent initiatives, including the Transatlantic Democracy Network and Civitas, an international program to promote civic education. He served as deputy and acting director of the United States Information Agency in the Clinton administration, and Secretary of State Albright appointed him U.S. representative to the Community of Democracies. In 2002, Secretary of State Powell appointed him to lead a group to investigate slavery and human trafficking in Sudan. He passed away in October 2005.Click here for more information on the Penn Kemble ForumVisit the NED Facebook page for photos from this eventI want to begin by welcoming the third class of Penn Kemble Fellows.  It’s the largest group of fellows we’ve ever had – 32 – and I want to congratulate all of you on being selected.  The competition was very stiff, which is a terrific sign of how popular this program has become.  I have great confidence that it’s going to be an exciting experience for you, and that you’re going to learn a lot about the state of democracy in the world today and its prospect for the future.I also want to welcome my old friend Mal Caravatti, who is Penn’s widow, and Genie Kemble, Penn’s sister who led the Free Trade Union Institute, NED’s labor core grantee, when the NED was founded more than three decades ago.I want to say a few words about Penn Kemble, who was a singular American democracy activist for many decades, from the 1960s until his death a decade ago.He was associated with many organizations during those years: Social Democrats, USA, which was the successor organization of the Socialist Party; the Coalition for a Democratic Majority that tried to reclaim the Democratic Party for centrist and pro-labor Democrats after the McGovern defeat in 1972; and Freedom House, the pre-eminent U.S. organization defending political freedom in the world that was created in 1941 to oppose isolationism in this country and to urge U.S. support for the struggle to defeat Nazi Germany and its fascist allies.  He served as Deputy Director of the U.S. Information Agency during the Clinton Administration, when he took the lead in promoting civic education around the world.He was called a “muscular” or a “Scoop Jackson” Democrat, meaning that he was a “large-D” Democrat who was a strong anti-Communist.  The New York Sun called him a “Cold War Hero.”As a political or democracy activist, he was animated by ideas and causes, even has he appreciated the central importance of free elections and democratic governance.He believed in carrying out the struggle to defend democracy primarily in the arenas of culture, values, and ideas.He was a kind of paradoxical figure – a social democrat, and therefore, a person on the left, who did battle against what, for want of a better term, we might call “left liberalism.”  He was essentially a person of the political center.As a social democrat, he admired the thought of the philosopher Sidney Hook, who once said that democracy is not merely a political concept but a moral one.  It is democracy as a way of life.Penn said that his passion for democracy was awakened by a trip he made to Italy as a high school junior, when he encountered anti-Americanism for the first time.That passion expressed itself in his passionate anti-communism, which was the major issue in American foreign policy until the collapse of communism in Central Europe in 1989 and the disintegration of the Soviet Union in 1991. It also expressed itself in his support for the rights and well-being of ordinary Americans and in his relationship with the American labor movement; and in his defense of America and the liberal democratic principles it embodies.There is today a greater need than ever for people with this kind of democratic conviction.The NED has called attention to what we have called the authoritarian resurgence, by which we mean the growing and dangerous assertion of both hard and soft power by autocratic countries like Russia and China.  There is the problem of democratic backsliding in some countries of Central Europe and in places like Thailand, Turkey, and the Philippines.Not least worrying is the crisis of liberal democracy in the established democracies on the West, including here in the US. NED’s Journal of Democracy has just published an article entitled “The Danger of Deconsolidation,” by Roberto Stefan Foa and Yascha Mounk, which documents the declining support for democratic values among young Americans.There is a crying need to develop a new generation of young people in this country and around the world who, like Penn Kemble, are animated by democratic ideas and values. That’s the purpose of the Penn Kemble Youth Forum, and it’s why I think it’s so urgently important today.
NED Mourns the Death of Former Chairman John Brademas#July 12, 2016# FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEDATE:  July 12, 2016CONTACT:  Jane Riley Jacobsen, jane@ned.org or (202) 378-9700      WASHINGTON, DC – It was with great sadness that the Board of Directors and staff of the National Endowment for Democracy (NED) learned of the passing of its former chairman, The Honorable John Brademas, who died July 11, 2016 in New York City at the age of 89.Brademas, an 11-term Democratic congressman from South Bend, Indiana, who also served as president of New York University, served as NED chairman from 1993-2001.“John Brademas was a great public servant and a fervent friend of democracy in the United States and throughout the world,” said NED President Carl Gershman.  “His chairmanship of the NED board during the Clinton Administration helped solidify the bipartisan consensus in the Congress favoring democracy assistance, and his strong leadership rallied support for NED’s mission and work at a time of growing isolationism in the aftermath of the Cold War.  John was a beloved man, and he will be long remembered and sorely missed.”The Endowment paid tribute to Brademas’ service to NED and to the cause of democracy with the presentation of the NED’s Democracy Service Medal in January, 2001.# # #  
Geshe la Accepts Democracy Service Medal on Behalf of Tenzin Delek#June 15, 2016#Tashi Delek. I would like to extend my heartfelt greetings to our beloved leader, His Holiness the Dalai Lama, our Prime Minister, Sikyong Dr. Lobsang Sangay, members of the United States Congress, the staff and board of the National Endowment for Democracy, and all of you in the audience.Tenzin Delek Rinpoche was a man who was fiercely loyal to His Holiness the Dalai Lama and devoutly followed His Holiness’s principles of nonviolent action and public service. For this reason, he was arrested by Chinese authorities on April 7th, 2002 and sentenced to death under false charges. Thousands of Tibetans, including his family, appealed for his release as did many governments, including the United States, and activists around the world. His death sentence was commuted to life imprisonment. After serving 13 years of his sentence, Rinpoche died in prison last July at age 65.During the 13 years that Rinpoche spent in prison, his family was allowed to visit him only six times. He said to them: “The reason I am in prison is because of my loyalty to His Holiness the Dalai Lama in word and deed, and because of my love for Tibet. China’s accusation against me is entirely false, and I am completely innocent.” When I first heard of Rinpoche’s death, I was paralyzed with shock and grief. I felt helpless and hopeless. At that moment, Tibetans in Tibet, with great courage, stressed the importance of protesting the Chinese government and publicizing the injustice against Rinpoche. They revived my soul and strengthened my resolve to press on, and gave me the courage to continue Rinpoche’s great vision for Tibet and his work for the Tibetan people. They gave me the courage to seek justice and to vindicate the truth. I request all those who have supported him to continue your support. As we approach the one-year anniversary of Rinpoche’s death, I thank the National Endowment for Democracy for recognizing his contributions and for honoring him with the Democracy Service Medal. On behalf of his family and his followers, I express my deepest gratitude. This award is not only a recognition of Rinpoche alone, but a tribute to all those Tibetans who languish in Chinese prisons for seeking their freedom and human rights. What happened to Rinpoche highlights the abysmal situation of repression in Tibet, the lack of legal recourse, and the absence of human rights and religious freedom. Even the simplest action in the global arena makes a big difference to Tibetans, and I urge you to continue supporting our freedom struggle, the cause for which more than 150 Tibetans have self-immolated. In the last 13 years, in my effort to gather information on Rinpoche, I have received help from many Tibetans who took great risks to their own lives in order to collect and send information out of Tibet. Likewise, to Chinese writer, Wang Lixiong, and Tibetan poet, Tsering Woeser, and NED president, Carl Gershman, I owe my deepest thanks. I am especially grateful to the many government and nongovernmental organizations in exile who did everything they could to campaign for Rinpoche’s life and for his release. Tenzin Delek Rinpoche’s death was untimely and tragic, but his spirit lives on. We must continue our nonviolent struggle to end political repression in Tibet and never give up hope. We must continue to stand on the side of truth, justice, and equality. Thank you.མང་གཙོའི་ཐེབས་རྩ་ཁང་གི་གཟེངས་རྟགས་མཛད་སྒོའི་གཏམ་བཤད།ལྷ་དང་བཅས་པའི་འགྲོ་བ་ཡོངས་ཀྱི་སྐྱབས་གནས་འཛམ་གླིང་ཞི་བདེའི་དེད་དཔོན་༧གོང་ས༧སྐྱབས་མགོན་ཆེན་པོ་ལ་སྒོ་གསུམ་གུས་ཕྱག་སྔོན་དུ་སྟངས་ནས་དེ་རིང་མང་གཙོའི་ཐེབས་རྩ་ཁང་གི་གཟེངས་རྟགས་མཛད་སྒོ་ལ་ཕེབས་པའི་སྐུ་མགྲོན་གྱི་གཙོ་བོར་བོད་ཀྱི་བླ་ན་མེད་པའི་དབུ་འཁྲིད་༸གོང་ས་༸སྐྱབས་མགོན་ཆེན་པོ་མཆོག་གིས་གཙོས་པའི་དཔལ་ལྡན་སྲིད་སྐྱོང་མཆོག་ཨ་རིའི་གྲོས་ཚོགས་ཀྱི་འཐུས་མི་རྣམ་པ་དང་། མང་གཙོ་ཐེབས་རྩ་ཁང་གི་འགན་འཛིན་གྱིས་གཙོས་ཚོགས་བཅར་བ་ཡོངས་ལ་ གུས་པས་འཚམས་འདྲི་བཀྲིས་བདེ་ལེགས་ཞུ་རྒྱུ་ཡིན།སྤྲུལ་སྐུ་བསྟན་འཛིན་བདེ་ལེགས་རིན་པོ་ཆེ་མཆོག་གིས་རྒྱུན་དུ་༸གོང་ས་༸སྐྱབས་མགོན་ཆེན་པོ་མཆོག་གི་དགོངས་གཞི་ལྟར། འཚེ་མེད་ཞི་བདེ་དང་ལྷག་བསམ་རྣམ་དག་གིས་མི་མང་ལ་སྲི་ཞུ་བསྒྲུབས་པར་ བརྟེན། ཕྱི་ལོ་ ༢༠༠༢ ཟླ་ ༤ ཚེས་ ༧ ཉིན་ཉག་ཆུ་རྫོང་ཐོག་ཏུ། རྒྱ་གཞུང་གིས་མ་ཉེས་ཁག་ གཡོགས་ཀྱིས་འཛིན་བཟུང་བཙོན་འཇུག་བྱས། སྐབས་དེར་ཁོང་གི་གཅུང་མོ་གསུམ་གྱི་གཙོས་རྗེས་ འཇུག་པ་བོད་མི་ཁྲི་ཚོ་མང་པོས་རེ་སྐུལ་དང་ཞུ་གཏུགས་སྣ་ཚོགས་བྱས་ཀྱང་། རྒྱ་གཞུང་གིས་ཁྲིམས་ ལུགས་དང་མི་མཐུན་པའི་ཐོག་ནས། ཁོང་ལ་ལོ་གཉིས་དུས་འགྱངས་ཀྱི་སྲོག་ཁྲིམས་བཅད་པ་དང་། རྗེས་སུ་ཨ་རིའི་སྲིད་གཞུང་གིས་གཙོས་རྒྱལ་སྤྱིའི་སྲིད་གཞུང་ཁག་དང་། གཞུང་འབྲེལ་མ་ཡིན་པའི་ ཚོགས་པ་སོགས་ཀྱི་གནོན་ཤུགས་ལ་བརྟེན་ནས་སྲོག་ཁྲིམས་དེ་ཚེ་བཙོན་ལ་བསྒྱུར་ཐུབ་ཡོད། ལོ་ངོ་བཅུ་གསུམ་རྗེས་ལོ་སྔོན་མ་ཕྱི་༧པའི་ཚེས་༡༢ཉིན་དགུང་ལོ་༦༥ཐོག་དགོངས་པ་རྫོགས་པ་རེད།རིན་པོ་ཆེ་མི་ལོ་ ༡༣ ལྷག་གི་རིང་བཙོན་ཁང་དུ་བཞུགས་པའི་སྐབས། ནང་མི་ཉེ་འབྲེལ་ཚོ་ཐེངས་ ༦ རིང་ཐུག་འཕྲད་བྱས་ཐུབ་ཡོད་ཅིང། སྐབས་དེར་རིན་པོ་ཆེ་མཆོག་གིས་ཞལ་འཆེམས་ལྟ་བུ་ གསུང་དོན་གཙོ་བོ་ནི། “ང་བཙོན་ཁང་དུ་ཡོང་དགོས་དོན་ནི་ངས་༸རྒྱལ་བ་རིན་པོ་ཆེའི་ ཅི་གསུངས་བཀའ་བསྒྲུབས་ཞུས་པ་དང་། བོད་ལ་ཤ་ཞེན་བྱས་པའི་དབང་གིས་རེད་མ་གཏོགས། རྒྱ་ནག་གཞུང་གིས་ང་ལ་ནག་ཉེས་འགེལ་བ་དེ་མ་ཉེས་ཁག་གཡོགས་ཡིན་པ་ལས་ང་ལ་ནག་ཉེས་གང་ཡང་མེད” ཅེས་གསུངས་ཡོད།དང་ཐོག་ཁོ་བོས་རིན་པོ་ཆེ་བཙོན་དུ་དགོངས་པ་རྫོགས་པའི་གནས་ཚུལ་ཐོས་པ་དང་། བསམ་ཡུལ་ ལས་འདས་ནས་ཅི་བྱ་བཏོལ་མེད་ཀྱི་དྲན་མེད་དུ་གནས་པའི་སྐབས། བོད་ནང་གི་བོད་མི་ ཚོས་སེམས་ཤུགས་ཆེན་པོའི་ཐོག་ནས། རྒྱ་གཞུང་ལ་ངོ་རྒོལ་དང་ཕྱི་ཕྱོགས་སུ་དྲིལ་བསྒྲགས་བྱེད་ དགོས་པའི་སྐུལ་མ་བྱས་པ་ལ་བརྟེན་ནས། ངའི་སེམས་སུ་སླར་ཡར་གསོན་ཤུགས་རྒྱས་ཏེ་རིན་པོ་ཆེ་ ཁོང་དགོངས་པ་རྫོགས་ཟིན་རུང། ཁོང་གི་རླབས་ཆེན་གྱི་ཕྱག་ལས་དང་ཐུགས་དགོངས་དེ་དག་ མུ་མཐུད་མཇུག་སྐྱོང་གིས་འགྲུབ་ཐབས་བྱ་རྒྱུའི་ཆོད་སེམས་དང། མུ་མཐུད་ནས་བདེན་པ་ལ་རྒྱལ་ཁ་ ཐོབ་པའི་ཆེད་དུ་འབད་བརྩོན་ཞུ་རྒྱུའི་དམ་བཅའ་བཞག་ཡོད་པས། ཁོང་ལ་རྒྱབ་སྐྱོར་གནང་ དང་གནང་བཞིན་པ་ཚོས་སྔར་བཞིན་རྒྱབ་སྐྱོར་ཡོང་བའི་འབོད་སྐུལ་ཞུ་རྒྱུ་ཡིན།སྤྲུལ་སྐུ་བསྟན་འཛིན་བདེ་ལེགས་རིན་པོ་ཆེ་མཆོག་དགོངས་པ་རྫོགས་ནས་ལོ་གཅིག་འཁོར་བའི་ཉེ་བའི་དུས་འདིར། རིན་པོ་ཆེའི་མཛད་རྗེས་ཁག་ལ་ངོས་འཛིན་གནང་བའི་ཐོག་ནས། ཨ་རིའི་མང་གཙོའི་ ཐེབས་རྩ་ཁང་གིས་མང་གཙོའི་ཞབས་ཞུའི་གཟེངས་རྟགས་གནང་བ་འདི། གུས་པས་རིན་པོ་ཆེའི་ འབྲེལ་ཡོད་ནང་མི་དང་ཁོང་གི་རྗེས་འཇུག་བ་ཡོངས་ཀྱི་ཚབ་ཞུས་ནས་སྙིང་ཐག་པ་ནས་བཀའ་དྲིན་ཆེ་ཞུ་གི་ཡོད། དེ་བཞིན་དེ་རིང་གི་གཟེངས་རྟགས་འདི་རིན་པོ་ཆེ་གཅིག་པུ་ཙམ་མིན་པ། རིན་པོ་ཆེ་དང་འདྲ་བ་རྒྱ་གཞུང་གི་བཙོན་འོག་ཏུ་ཡོད་པའི་བོད་མི་ཡོངས་ལ་ཐོབ་པའི་ངོས་འཛིན་ཞུ་རྒྱུ་ཡིན།རིན་པོ་ཆེའི་གནས་སྟངས་འདིས་བོད་སྤྱི་ཡོངས་ཀྱི་གནས་ཚུལ་དམ་དྲག་ཡོད་པ་མཚོན་ཐུབ་པ་མ་ཟད། བོད་ལ་ཁྲིམས་ལུགས་འདྲ་མཉམ་མེད་པ། འགྲོ་བ་མིའི་ཐོབ་ཐང་མེད་པ། ཆོས་དད་རང་དབང་མེད་སོགས་མཚོན་ཐུབ། བོད་ནང་ཉིན་རེ་བཞིན་ཛ་དྲགས་ཆེ་རུ་འགྲོ་བའི་ བཞིན་པའི་སྐབས་འདིར་བོད་མིའི་རང་དབང་ཐོབ་རྩོད་ལ་རྒྱབ་སྐྱོར་བ་རྣམས་ནས་རྒྱབ་སྐྱོར་ཡོད་མེད་གནམ་ས་ལྟ་བུའི་ཁྱད་པར་བཟོ་ཡི་འདུག་པས་བོད་མིའི་རང་དབང་དང་བོད་ཀྱི་བདེན་དོན་ཆེད་རང་ལུས་མེ་མཆོད་ཕུལ་མཁན་བརྒྱ་དང་ལྔ་ཅུ་མ་ཟིན་ཙམ་གྱིས་རེ་འདོད་དང་དམིགས་ཡུལ་འགྲུབ་ཆེད་རྒྱབ་སྐྱོར་མུ་མཐུད་དགོས་པའི་རེ་སྐུལ་ཞུ་རྒྱུ་ཡིན།འདས་པའི་མི་ལོ་ ༡༣ ལྷག་གི་རིང་གུས་པས་གནས་ཚུལ་མཁོ་སྒྲུབ་སྐབས་རང་སྲོག་ལ་འཛེམས་མེད་ ཀྱིས་རིན་པོ་ཆེའི་གནས་ཚུལ་མཁོ་སྤྲོད་གནང་མཁན་བོད་བཞུགས་བོད་མི་ཚོ་དང། རྒྱ་ནག་ཏུ་གནས་སྡོད་རྩོམ་པ་པོ་ཝ་ལི་ཞུན་དང་ཚེ་རིང་འོད་ཟེར་གཙོས་པའི་རིན་པོ་ཆེའི་གནད་དོན་ལ་ལྷག་བསམ་རྣམ་དག་གིས་རྒྱབ་སྐྱོར་བྱེད་མཁན་དང་། མང་གཙོའི་ཐེབས་རྩ་ཁང་གི་འགན་འཛིན་ ཀལ་དགེ་ཤི་མིན་(Carl Gershman)རྒྱབ་སྐྱོར་དང་རོགས་རམས་ཤུགས་ཆེན་གནང་སོང་བས་ ཐུགས་རྗེ་ཆེ་ཞུ། ཕྱི་ཕྱོགས་སུ་ཡོད་པའི་གཞུང་འབྲེལ་དང་གཞུང་འབྲེལ་མ་ཡིན་པའི་ རྒྱབ་སྐྱོར་བ་འབྲེལ་ཡོད་ཚང་མ་ལ་སྙིང་ཁུང་རུས་པའི་གཏིང་ནས་བཀའ་དྲིན་ཆེ་ཞུ་རྒྱུ་ཡིན།རིན་པོ་ཆེ་གློ་བུ་དགོངས་པ་རྫོགས་པ་དེ་ཧ་ཅང་གི་བློ་ཕམ་རང་བཞིན་ཞིག་རེད། ཡིན་ཡང་ཁོང་གི་ ཐུགས་དགོངས་དེ་མུ་འཐུད་གནས་ཡོད། བོད་ཀྱི་ཆབ་སྲིད་ཀྱི་གནས་སྟངས་མ་སེར་གྱི་བར་ ང་ཚོ་ཞི་བའི་ཐབས་རྩོད་མུ་འཐུད་ནས་གནས་དགོས་ལ་ང་ཚོ་སེམས་ཤུགས་ནམ་ཡང་ཆགས་རྒྱུ་མེད། ང་ཚོ་དྲང་བདེན་དང་འདྲ་མཉམ་ཕྱོགས་སུ་མུ་འཐུད་སྐྱོད་དགོས། ཐུགས་རྗེ་ཆེ །Remarks by NED President Carl Gershman to The Seventh Meeting of the World Parliamentarians...On May 25, Nigeria's Transition Monitoring Group (TMG),...Czech and Slovak representatives joined members of...In March 2015 in New Delhi, the conference “Strengthening...Recent English and Chinese-language articles published...
Journal of Democracy April 2016 Issue: “Latin America’s New Turbulence”#April 11, 2016#“Latin America’s New Turbulence” A number of Latin American countries are in the midst of turmoil. Brazil has been rocked by public anger over corruption, bringing President Dilma Rousseff to the brink of impeachment. Yet as Marcus André Melo explains in “Crisis and Integrity in Brazil,” this situation has also shown that rule of law in the country is strong. Other essays address the defeat of the Chavistas in Venezuela’s 2015 legislative elections, and the prospects for a democratic transition there; the victory of Mauricio Macri and the downfall of Peronism in Argentina’s 2015 presidential election; the dashed expectations for reform in Mexico; and the mounting troubles in Central America’s “Northern Triangle” of Guatemala, Honduras, and El Salvador.ChinaSeymour Martin Lipset famously argued that economic development would enlarge the middle class, and that the middle class would demand democracy. Andrew J. Nathan tries to piece together “The Puzzle of the Chinese Middle Class,” examining whether this proposition is likely to hold true in China.“Burma Votes for Change”In November 2015, Burmese voters gave a sweeping victory to the opposition National League for Democracy (NLD), the party of Nobel Peace prize winner Aung San Suu Kyi, over the military-backed party that had led the country since 2011. As Igor Blaževič details in “The Challenges Ahead,” the NLD has a tall order to fill: providing better governance and improving the economy, forging national reconciliation in a country riven for decades by ethnic conflict, and devising some sort of federal arrangement that will be acceptable to both the military and the ethnic-minority groups. In “The New Configuration of Power,” Min Zin explains how Burma’s former military rulers can use various constitutional provisions to foil the new NLD government. Finally, Bridget Welsh, Kai-Ping Huang, and Yun-han Chu provide insight into the “Clashing Attitudes Toward Democracy” of Burma’s citizens and the problems these may pose for democratic government. The April issue also features:For the complete Table of Contents, please visit www.journalofdemocracy.org. Photo: Rogerio Bromfman/Flickr (Creative Commons 2.0) The October 2018 issue of the Journal of Democracy features a seven-article...Recent English and Chinese-language articles published...Economic liberalization failed to bring political liberaliation...Join a distinguished group of panelists for a discussion...This project gives a rare glimpse into a situation...Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellow Agon Maliqi discussed how to bolster domestic...
Is Democracy in Retreat?#March 22, 2016#Warsaw-based Polish Newspaper Gazeta Wyborcza sat down with NED President Carl Gershman to discuss whether Democracy was in retreat around the globe. GAZETA WYBORCZA: Europe was divided by the Iron Curtain in June 1982, when President Ronald Reagan, in his address to the British Parliament, proposed that the United States undertake a bi-partisan global campaign for democracy.GERSHMAN: In the Westminster Address, which was one of the most important speeches of Reagan’s presidency, the President recalled a marker in the center of Warsaw, showing that the distances from Warsaw to Moscow and Warsaw to Brussels are equal. The sign, he said, makes this point: Poland is not East or West. Poland is at the center of European civilization. Remember that the speech was given only months after the imposition of martial law, when Solidarity’s struggle for democracy and against totalitarianism was on everyone’s mind. When the President said that “optimism comes less easily today, not because democracy is less vigorous, but because democracy’s enemies have refined their instruments of repression,” his point of reference was martial law and the suppression of Solidarity. He added that optimism is still “in order, because day by day democracy is proving itself to be a not-at-all-fragile flower.”Read the remarks given by NED President Carl Gershman to The Senate Human Rights...In Mistrust We Trust: Can Transparency Revive Democracy?
North Korea: Why Human Rights Must Come First, Editorial in World Affairs Journal#February 22, 2016#This article, as it appeared World Affairs Journal, is based on remarks Carl Gershman delivered at the conference “North Korea: The Human Condition and Security Nexus,” held at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington, D.C., on February 19, 2016. The second anniversary of the United Nations Commission of Inquiry report on human rights in North Korea occurred on February 17, soon after North Korea’s launch of a long-range rocket in violation of international sanctions banning the use of ballistic missile technology. The launch, which followed North Korea’s fourth nuclear test the previous month, was immediately condemned by the U.N. Security Council and by Secretary Ban Ki-moon, who said the launch was “deeply deplorable.” The Secretary General also called on North Korea to “halt its provocative actions,” after which North Korea’s dictator defiantly pledged to launch additional rockets. The crisis has raised new questions about how to deal with the threat from North Korea. Until now, the conventional policy approach has separated security issues from human rights concerns.  Raising human rights problems in North Korea has been seen as provocative and a sure way to scuttle efforts to resolve the North Korean nuclear problem through negotiations. But there is now a growing skepticism about the possibility that negotiations with North Korea can produce meaningful results. The problem is not just that many people have given up on the idea of getting China to use the leverage it has with North Korea to bring it to the negotiating table. Like the earlier effort during the Bush Administration to denuclearize North Korea through the Six-Party talks, playing the China card has become the diplomatic equivalent of a wild-goose chase. The reason is that for the regime in Pyongyang, the nuclear issue is an existential matter. It sees having nuclear weapons as the key to its survival and believes that negotiating them away would be suicidal, no matter what economic and political benefits it might receive in return.The basic issue, therefore, is not transactional but has to do with the nature of the North Korean regime. North Korea is the most oppressive example in the world today of what the former Soviet dissident, Natan Sharansky, has called a “fear society,” meaning a country where the government maintains control by instilling fear in the hearts of everyone it rules over. What is different about North Korea is that it is the regime itself that is afraid—afraid of the modern world, afraid of the free Korean society across its border, afraid of its own people. The fact that such a paranoid regime uses the possession of nuclear weapons to try to guarantee its survival makes it, to say the least, exceedingly dangerous.Reflecting the views of many people who follow the North Korea problem, the former US Ambassador to China Winston Lord said recently that “We need a radically different approach,” one that is based on the understanding that the North Korean system is a closed dynastic dictatorship, and that until it becomes a more open and normal country, it will represent a security threat to its neighbors and the world. The idea that international security and human rights are intimately linked is not new. It was the core belief of Dr. Andrei Sakharov, the physicist and Soviet dissident who said in his Nobel Lecture in 1975 that disarmament and international security “are inconceivable without an open society with freedom of information, freedom of conscience, the right to publish and the right to travel” freely. In an essay he wrote in 1977 for the Norwegian Nobel Committee, he noted that the “human rights issue is not simply a moral one, but also a paramount, practical ingredient of international trust and security.”There are two necessary components of a policy to deal with such a regime. The first is to contain North Korea by taking steps to deter its aggressive behavior, among them the imposition of comprehensive sanctions and the deployment in South Korea of an effective system of ballistic missile defense. The second is to change it by defending the human rights of the North Korean people. That means doing what we can to end their isolation from the outside world, to empower them, and to give them a voice in determining their country’s future. Only then might there emerge—from within the country’s elite class—people who realize that the current system is doomed and who want to seek a peaceful way to a better future. It’s time, therefore, for specialists in both the security and human rights areas of policy begin a common discussion of how to fashion a more integrated approach to dealing with North Korea.Fifteen years ago, when the US Committee for Human Rights in North Korea was launched in the wake of the 9/11 terrorist attacks, the group’s founding chair Dr. Fred Ikle said that it would focus on internal liberalization in North Korea as a way to address the concern over state-sponsored terrorism.  Ikle, the author of How Nations Negotiate and other works on international policy, was America’s leading defense intellectual who understood the need for an approach that would link issues of international security to efforts that encourage greater openness and freedom in closed societies. “In the end,” he said, “democracy and the rule of law, desirable in and of themselves, are also a guarantee of peace and security.” That is the comprehensive vision that must now guide US policy on North Korea.Thank you for supporting the National Endowment for Democracy’s dedication...China at the Tipping Point?
Ethiopia: Silencing Dissent — Journal of Democracy January 2016#January 22, 2016#In Ethiopia’s May 2015 parliamentary elections, the long-ruling Ethiopian People’s Revolutionary Democratic Front (EPRDF), together with its allies, claimed a historic victory with 100 percent of the seats. Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellow Simegnish “Lily” Mengesha writes in the Journal of Democracy January 2016 issue that this result is not a surprising as it might seem. Since the 2005 general elections—the most contested in the nation’s history—the party has been using antiterrorism laws and harsh restrictions on media and civil society to silence voices critical of the regime. The regime justifies its repressive measures by telling citizens that the country is in danger of ethnic strife and that maintaining law and order requires a firm approach. Like most autocratic regimes, however, the EPRDF worries that the more informed and connected the people are, the more empowered they will be to hold the government to account.“Currently there are no civil society organizations in Ethiopia actively addressing issues of human rights, democracy, or gender empowerment. Not only are the country’s most helpless populations even more vulnerable now, but problems such as poor governance, corruption, and weak rule of law are worsening in the absence of viable CSOs working to mitigate them.” Photo: David Stanley/Flickr (Creative Commons) The International Forum for Democratic Studies asked...Dr. Ghia Nodia of the Ilia Chavchavadze State University...The April 2019 issue of the Journal of Democracy features...Voices of Civil Society in Iraq
NED rebuts inaccurate charge of support for anti-Semitism#December 16, 2015#The National Endowment for Democracy (NED) was recently alerted to a blog post that detailed the virulently anti-Semitic remarks of one Gamal Abdel Nasser Mohammed Abu Nahel, who heads the Palestinian Commission for Refugee Rights Protection (PCRP).  The blogger, who did not contact NED to confirm his story, alleges that NED is one of several Western donors supporting the PCRP.  This is completely inaccurate.While NED did provide support to this group during the period of 2007-2011, NED does not currently fund the group and has never had a relationship with Gamal Abdel Nasser Mohammed Abu Nahel; furthermore, he had no affiliation with the PCRP during the period of NED support.The allegation, however, provides us with an opportunity to reaffirm our approach to grant-making to civil society groups in the region and around the world.First, we offer assurance that none of our funds are used for purposes, such as anti-Israel advocacy, not approved in our grant agreements. Second, our program officers regularly monitor grantee activities, statements, and websites to ensure that the organizations we fund do not endorse or incite violence or anti-Semitism, regardless of whether or not this is within the context of a NED-supported activity. We have zero tolerance for anti-Semitism or incitement to violence, and would immediately cease to fund any organization that engaged in it.
Journal of Democracy October Issue: Authoritarianism Goes Global (II)#October 28, 2015#The Journal of Democracy October issue features essays on authoritarianism, the aftermath of the Arab Spring, “non-Western democracy,” militarism in Latin America, and the impact of decentralization. In “The Rise of the World’s Poorest Countries,” Steven Radelet concludes: “For more than two decades now, the majority of the world’s poorest countries have been making some of the fastest and biggest development gains in history.” Among these impressive gains is the unprecedented number of low-income democracies. Steven Radelet spoke about his essay and forthcoming book at a panel discussion at NED on October 26.The Journal‘s latest installment in a series of essays on the global resurgence of authoritarianism focuses on two arenas in which authoritarians are increasingly making their influence felt: civil society and the media. First, Anne Applebaum reveals the Bolshevik roots of the Putin regime’s attempts to crush independent civil society. Next, Douglas Rutzen looks at the measures countries around the world are taking to limit the freedom of civil society organizations. The remaining two essays focus on authoritarian initiatives in the field of international media: Peter Pomerantsev shows how the Kremlin, having mastered Russia’s domestic media, is now seeking to sell its depictions of pseudoreality abroad; and Anne-Marie Brady traces China’s use of foreign propaganda to improve its global image and discredit its critics.A group of articles, including an introductory essay by Michele Dunne, takes stock of developments in the Middle East and North Africa since the wave of uprisings that began in late 2010. The authors focus on such topics as public opinion, voting patterns, secularism versus Islamism, and the role of the media. In “How the Media Trashed the Transitions,” Marc Lynch explores how the media drove the insurrections but also contributed to their inability to produce lasting democratic institutions.For more than 25 years, the Journal of Democracy has been a leading voice in the conversation about government by consent and its place in the world. The Journal is published for the International Forum for Democratic Studies at the National Endowment for Democracy by the Johns Hopkins University Press and full access is available to subscribers through Project MUSE.  Washington, DC — The pro-democracy demonstrations...The January 2019 issue of the Journal of Democracy...Journal of Democracy coeditor Marc F. Plattner discusses...Apr 15, 2014 
Carl Gershman Discusses the State of Democracy in Bosnia and Herzegovina#October 20, 2015#Attending the Sarajevo Youth Summit, National Endowment for Democracy president Carl Gershman gave an interview to Oslobodjenje, Bosnia and Herzegovina’s leading daily, discussing the state of democracy in the country and the world today. NED grantee during the Sarajevo siege, the award-winning Oslobodjenje was named the 1992 Paper of the Year and is the recipient of the 1993 Sakharov Prize.Read interview in its entirety. Remarks given at the "Two Decades of US-Taiwan Relations" Conference sponsored...Remarks by NED President Carl Gershman at the Kyiv...
Report: Stifling the Public Sphere: Media and Civil Society in Egypt, Russia, and Vietnam#October 14, 2015#Civil society and independent media play crucial roles in effective public policy-making and for improving public discourse. But in authoritarian regimes such as Egypt, Russia, and Vietnam—countries aspiring to modernization through rapidly growing Internet access—repression of civil society and the media is not just severe, but getting worse.These regimes’ political priorities compel them to systematically crack down on the very institutions that are essential for meaningful reform and economic progress.In a new report by the International Forum for Democratic Studies, three experts assess the shape and trajectory of civil society and the media, the restrictions that are placed on them, and how these constraints are holding each country back.The environment for media and civil society is undeniably grim in all three of the cases examined in this report, due to official policies that limit the potential of the public sphere. But each of the analysts suggests the existence of a powerful latent desire for better information and more responsive governance.” — Christopher Walker, IntroductionFew issues show the discrepancy between the promise of the 2011 revolution and the reality of repression more clearly than media independence and freedom of speech. Repression against journalists and autonomous outlets helped return Egypt to a system of authoritarian stagnation.”—Sherif Mansour, EgyptThe smothering of media and civil society further weakens the Russian system’s ability to tackle the country’s already-rampant corruption and will shrink incentives to reform the economy. That, in turn, is likely to create even more favorable ground for lawlessness and provide more impunity for corrupt officials.”— Maria Snegovaya, RussiaThe proliferation of technology and the Internet [in Vietnam] may have changed the game and given the private media the potential for rapid expansion, but until the state decides that such outlets are not a threat, they will be systematically targeted.”— Zachary Abuza, Vietnam
Barbara Haig Honored at International Republican Institute’s 2015 Freedom Award#September 11, 2015#On September 9th, International Republican Institute (IRI) honored some of democracy’s greatest heroes at their 2015 Freedom Award. Honorees included: Speaker John A. Boehner, Dr. Mo Ibrahim and Boris Nemtsov. Each have been strong advocates for democracy, freedom and good governance at a time when those ideals are under attack around the world.During the ceremony, Ambassador Mark Green, president of IRI, and Ken Wollack, president of the National Democratic Institute (NDI), also honored Barbara Haig, Deputy to the President for Policy & Strategy, for her 30 years of service at the National Endowment for Democracy.Click here to read full article. 
Statement on Russian Undesirable Organizations#July 28, 2015#FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEDATE:  July 28, 2015CONTACT:  Jane Riley Jacobsen  jane@ned.org, 202-378-9700National Endowment for Democracy Statement on Russian Undesirable OrganizationsWASHINGTON, D.C. – In response to being named an “undesirable organization” by the Russian government, the National Endowment for Democracy has released the following statement:“The law on undesirable organizations is the latest in a series of highly restrictive laws that limit the freedom of Russian citizens. This law, as well as its predecessors, contravenes Russia’s own constitution as well as numerous international laws and treaties.  The true intent of these laws is to intimidate and isolate Russian citizens.  NED remains committed to supporting human rights and fundamental freedoms throughout the world.”# # #  The International Forum for Democratic Studies cordially invites you to a presentation...Ms. Saba Ismail is executive director of Aware Girls,...The National Endowment for Democracy (NED) is mourning...Evaluating the Evaluators: Media Freedom Indexes and...Melissa Aten of the International Forum for Democratic...Two dozen years ago, Eddie Jarwolo was a homeless “street kid,” as his native...
Authoritarian Media and the Era of Disinformation#July 16, 2015#In this episode of Democracy Ideas, Peter Pomerantsev discusses modern innovations in Russian propaganda techniques and the effect they have on audiences within and beyond Russia’s borders. In an era of increased interdependence and connectivity, Pomerantsev argues that the Russian authorities have discovered ways to leverage and subvert the openness of the democracies by injecting disinformation into the global information space.Peter Pomerantsev is a Senior Fellow at the Legatum Institute Transitions Forum. He is also an author and documentary producer. His writing appears regularly in the London Review of Books, Atlantic, Financial Times, Foreign Policy and elsewhere, focusing largely, though not exclusively, on 21st century propaganda. Previously, Pomerantsev worked as a consultant on EU and World Bank development projects in the former USSR. He is author of a book about working as a TV producer in Putin’s Russia, Nothing is True and Everything is Possible (2014).Watch more Democracy IdeasWalker: In the modern information age, Russia has managed to maintain meaningful control over news and information. Why don’t we start with the domestic scene in Russia? Here we are in the era of globalization, the internet has proliferated around the world, and yet, when it comes to news about information and politics, it seems as though the system has managed to keep a hold on the news and information that counts. How do you see that?Pomerantsev: Firstly, there is a system of control which is very centralized. So, the first thing that Putin did when he comes to power in 2000 is to seize control over TV. He gets rid of the oligarchs who controlled it and then puts it into the hands of friends or into the hands of the state. There is also a very simple, physical, centralized process where the heads of the TV channels meet in the Kremlin once a week. They are told who is allowed on TV, who is not, what the agenda is, what the framing should be, and what the narratives are. It is all scripted like a movie, in that sense. It is very, very, very centralized. That is really quite old school with that sort of top-down instruction.What is innovative is that they play with narratives and ideology in a more sophisticated way. For example, if communist news was a joke and they just lie about what was going on in the country, and if there was a flat monotone giving you the communist ideology that no one believed in, the approach now is much more subtle. Firstly, they do show bad news, they just frame it in a certain way. The news will start about Putin—because Putin is at the top of the social pyramid—then something bad happening in Russia, but right after that something much worse happening in Ukraine. They do try to include people’s reality, but they have learned its best that they leak the bad news first—they do not want another Chernobyl. The main thing they have done is create almost a simulacrum of debate and discussion. You will have a pseudo left-wing opposition party riling with a pseudo right-wing opposition party in current affairs debating shows. The idea is to make Putin look good by contrast. They have gotten much more sophisticated and supple in their approach, and much more liquid in their approach to ideology.Walker: You have described the domestic scene and innovations that have emerged in recent years. At the same time, the Russian authorities have seen fit to take their media beyond Russia’s borders, and certainly since the annexation of Crimea, people outside of Russia have come to pay more attention to this. What do you think are the most important features of Russia’s international media and what are its aims?Pomerantsev: Primarily it is seen as a weapon. It is not seen as classic public relations or propaganda in the sense of persuasion, public diplomacy, or making a case. It is seen as a weapon—part of the arsenal of foreign policy with which to divide and conquer, sow confusion, and subvert. It is a very different approach to media. The news channels might look like news channels—they even borrow some of the opening credits from a Western show—but their purpose is very different. The heads of Russia’s TV channels talk about themselves as actors in an information war—a psychological war. That is already very different than our understanding of media.I would divide it into two things. One is the action they have on Russian speakers in the near abroad, which is a very intense one. For example, a poll back in 2006 in Estonia, showed that half of Russian speakers in Estonia (that is a fairly large amount of the population) rejected the idea that Estonia was ever colonized by the Soviet Union. They live in a separate reality, and once they live in a separate reality, they can be pushed towards theoretically instigating some sort of revolt or stirring up trouble for the Estonian central government. So that is one part that is a very intense area of concern.Something else the Kremlin is trying to reach out beyond that is to set up international news agencies like Sputnik and Russia Today which broadcast in English, Spanish, German, Arabic and are expanding. Their aim is very different. They try to see what is happening in the West and ride that wave. If there is a bit of anti-EU sentiment in Europe, they will try to fan that as much as they can because they want a weak EU. They certainly do not try to impose anything about Putin, or love of Russia, or loyalty to Russian imperialism as they would in Russian-language. They just try to muddy the waters, spread conspiracies, divide alliances, and so on.Walker: You have described how Russia’s international media has proliferated beyond borders. And this, in some ways, tests some of the fundamental assumptions that many people had at the end of the Cold War—which was that encouraging integration and interdependence would lead to the liberalization of politics in Russia, presumably also the news media. Somehow, this integration has curdled. What do we take from this now that we are in 2015Pomerantsev: Well, it has not just curdled. It has not been a natural process. Ever since the end of the Cold War, Russian military top brass have been looking for an asymmetric approach to getting back at the West. They can never compete with NATO militarily, so they needed to find—and I am trying remember a quote from Marshal Sergeyev, who was a defense minister—“revolutionary paths and asymmetric directions.”Basically, they worked out that the openness of the Western system—that which has made it more efficient than the Soviet one—is a weakness. The fact that there are open markets meant that you could send economic actors in who could mess with other people’s economies—most obviously as with Russia’s control of the energy system in a lot of Europe. The openness of media meant that you could seed disinformation very brazenly into these societies and start trouble inside of them. Even something like NGOs and culture—you could open your church or compatriots’ NGOs in the Baltics and use them to stir discontent. They worked out that our openness is also our great Achilles’ heel.The choice we face—and this is very sharp in the Baltics where they talk about this a lot, and in Ukraine—is do we become less liberal? Do we start shutting off TV channels? Or, do we start throwing out compatriots’ NGOs? But then, have we lost the point of the whole exercise, or do we find our own asymmetric responses to this asymmetric challenge?Walker: You have described this very difficult environment where Russia and other countries with the capacity and intentions to operate beyond their borders are essentially exploiting the open, democratic space. If you were to fast forward five years into the future, given the trajectory of the approach of Russian authorities in the information space, what do you see as the main challenges we should be preparing for in the coming years?Pomerantsev: This is not just Russia. China has something very similar called “the three warfares,” which is a mixture of media, legal, psychological, and economic war to secure control in Southeast Asia.Chinese propaganda in the West is quite soft, with Confucius Institutes—a classic soft power exercise. But, in Asia, it is very, very aggressive. When they wanted to arrest control over a shoal near the Philippines, it was like what Russia does around Ukraine. They launched a psychological attack on the Philippines by putting a military flotilla by their shores. They did a media attack calling the Filipinos “deranged radicals” for protecting their territory. There was a legal attack using some false maps.A lot of states have worked out that this is actually the way forward for conflict in the 21st century—contactless war, endless information, and psychological operations. We are entering an era of disinformation rather than information. We thought the 21st century would be the era of information, but we might be in for the opposite. It is going to be a century of lies, subversion, and psychological manipulation where victory is going to be very hard to define because in the old fashioned war, you came in, planted a flag, and annexed some territory—Crimea is very old school. Most of these battles are not going to be like that at all. They are going to be very intangible. They are going to be fought in battles of the will, in economic subversion. It is going to be very hard to understand who is winning and who is losing. It is going to be a very chaotic century, and we are going to have to build new institutions to deal with it. Around the world, governments are devising new and elaborate methods to obstruct...The September 2018 edition of the Forum newsletter...Read Carl Gershman's opening remarks at IRI's Democracy...The democratic struggles that have been waged in this...The January 2019 edition of the Forum newsletter features...In his new position, Walker joins the leadership team at NED and continues to...
Europe and Azerbaijan: The End of Shame#June 11, 2015#In an article that appears in the Journal of Democracy’s July 2015 issue, Gerald Knaus details how the government of Azerbaijan has neutralized international mechanisms designed to protect human rights by coopting the Council of Europe.Despite an intense crackdown on civil society and independent journalists which began in late 2013, Azerbaijan held the chairmanship of the Council of Europe in 2014, as well as the presidency of the Council’s Committee for the Prevention of Torture. In his article, Knaus examines how Azerbaijan acheived “the end of shame” and the complicit role of the West in this disturbing outcome:“There are two common explanations for this state of affairs [in Azerbaijan]. One explanation focuses on the money that Azerbaijan spends polishing its image: financing statues of members of the presidential family in public parks from Canada to Russia; hosting mega-events in Baku; sponsoring the Spanish champion soccer team Atlético Madrid. The other explanation stresses Azerbaijan’s role as energy supplier. Both explanations fall short of appreciating the strategic genius of Ilham Aliyev’s campaign against human rights… The real secret to Azerbaijan’s influence is something else: The remarkable indifference of European democrats toward their own humanrights institutions. In some European democracies, ignorance and apathy regarding the Council of Europe vie with hostility to any binding international human-rights regime.” Download “Europe and Azerbaijan: The End of Shame” [PDF]Photo Credit: Michał Koziczyński/Creative CommonsRead the Resurgent Dictatorship blog posts, “In Advance of European Games, Azerbaijan Tames Human Rights Watchdogs” and “Azerbaijan’s Two Big Campaigns.”Watch video from the Forum event titled, “Azerbaijan: A Test Case for Democratic Solidarity.” 
If Russia Had Become Democratic….#April 27, 2015#Marc Plattner, NED’s Vice President for Research and Studies and coeditor of the Journal of Democracy, spoke with Levada Center sociologist Denis Volkov about “the essence of the Russian political order.”Denis Volkov: What is your definition of a democratic country?Marc Plattner: What we call “democracy” is really a shorthand for “liberal democracy.” And liberal democracy is a compound thing. It has a “liberal” part and a “majoritarian” part. The “majoritarian” part means free and fair elections. The “liberal” part has to do with protecting the rights of individuals and minorities. Not everything that the majority wants is democratic. In the very first issue of the Journal of Democracy Polish philosopher Leszek Kolakowski wrote an article titled “Uncertainties of a Democratic Age,” in which he says that we would not call it democratic if 51 percent of the population voted to put the other 49 percent to death. The whole structure of liberal democracy is based on the premise that the rights of individuals and minority groups are respected by the majority. But there is always an issue of where you draw the line…  Read the entire interview here
"If Russia Had Become Democratic…."#April 3, 2015#Marc Plattner, NED’s Vice President for Research and Studies and coeditor of the Journal of Democracy, spoke with Levada Center sociologist Denis Volkov about “the essence of the Russian political order.”Denis Volkov: What is your definition of a democratic country? Marc Plattner: What we call “democracy” is really a shorthand for “liberal democracy.” And liberal democracy is a compound thing. It has a “liberal” part and a “majoritarian” part. The “majoritarian” part means free and fair elections. The “liberal” part has to do with protecting the rights of individuals and minorities. Not everything that the majority wants is democratic. In the very first issue of the Journal of Democracy Polish philosopher Leszek Kolakowski wrote an article titled “Uncertainties of a Democratic Age,” in which he says that we would not call it democratic if 51 percent of the population voted to put the other 49 percent to death. The whole structure of liberal democracy is based on the premise that the rights of individuals and minority groups are respected by the majority. But there is always an issue of where you draw the line… Read the entire interview here
Reagan-Fascell Alumnus Rafael Marques de Morais Wins Journalism Award#March 19, 2015#Investigative journalist Rafael Marques de Morais was one of two awardees selected to receive the Index on Censorship Freedom of Expression journalism award at a ceremony held in London on March 18, 2015.Marques de Morais was a Reagan-Fascell Democracy Fellow at the Forum from March–August 2011, during which time he worked on a book, Blood Diamonds: Corruption and Torture in Angola, about systematic human rights abuses against workers in Angola’s diamond mines.On March 24, 2015. he will stand trial in Angola facing charges of defamation and criminal libel made by several Angolan generals implicated in his book for ties to diamond mines where human rights abuses occured. In 2012, Marques de Morais was similarly accused of libel in Portugal by nine Angolan generals, where the case was eventually thrown out by Portugal’s court in 2013.Watch Rafael Marques de Morais speak about “Corruption: An Impediment to Democracy in Angola” at NED on May 12, 2011.Transparency and the Struggle for Accountability in Mexico
The Kim Regime’s Atrocities and the Road Ahead#March 9, 2015#NED President Carl Gershman’s article as it appeared in the World Affairs Journal on March 5th.Last month marked the one-year anniversary of the report of the UN Human Rights Council’s Commission of Inquiry (COI) on human rights in North Korea. UN reports often have very limited impact and resonance. But this report was different. Its impact has already been significant, which is testimony to the quality of the work done by the three commissioners—the Australian judge Michael Kirby, who chaired the body; the Indonesian lawyer and politician Marzuki Darusman, who is also the UN special rapporteur for North Korea; and the Serbian human rights defender Sonja Biserko.The COI heard the testimony of 200 witnesses who had been able to defect from North Korea. While most of the witnesses did not testify publicly for fear of endangering family and associates in North Korea, 80 of them were prepared to give their testimony at public hearings. Their statements were filmed, uploaded on the Internet, and available for viewing around the world.Never before has the international community been able to hear such comprehensive testimony about the suffering of people in North Korea and the terrible crimes committed by the regime there. The main reason for the lack of information on North Korea is that until recently, the country was a completely closed system. There was no literature on the internal nature of the system. There was only a very small handful of exiles. But with the terrible famine in the 1990s and the breakdown of the public distribution system, people began to escape, even though trying to do so is extremely dangerous and can lead to death or harsh detention if someone is intercepted or forcibly repatriated. Over the past 15 years, about 27,000 North Koreans have been able to defect, and they have become an unprecedented source of information about the North Korean system and society. There are also now satellite images of North Korea that are especially valuable in identifying prison camps whose existence is denied by the regime.The COI heard testimony from such defectors, and the 372 pages of detailed findings that accompany its 36-page report are a devastating indictment of the North Korean system. The report documents the regime’s all-encompassing indoctrination machine that is used to incite hatred against official enemies. It describes the state surveillance that follows the private lives of every citizen. It explains the loyalty-based songbun caste system that divides the population along lines of perceived political loyalty and religion, with the lowest castes receiving the harshest treatment and the least food. It doesn’t shrink from providing a detailed account of the North Korean gulag, the system of prison camps where three generations of entire families are sent for the alleged political crime of a single family member. It notes as well that the prison camp population “has been gradually eliminated through deliberate starvation, forced labor, executions, rape and the denial of reproductive rights enforced through punishment, forced abortion and infanticide,” leading to the deaths of hundreds of thousands of prisoners. The report also criticizes China for its “rigorous policy of forcibly repatriating” North Koreans who have crossed the border illegally, and it insists that they be recognized as refugees fleeing persecution. It concludes that the testimony and other information it received “established that crimes against humanity have been committed” in North Korea “at the highest level of the State.”One indication of the report’s influence is that the North Korean government has launched what the human rights specialist David Hawk has called a “furious” diplomatic response, something it has never done before in reaction to criticism of its human rights abuses. Before now, Hawk notes, the regime had maintained that human rights issues were “non-existent” since “there could be no human-rights problems in their people-centered socialist system.” Now, the regime has officially responded to the COI by issuing an eight-page “detailed report” of its own attacking the US for having “fabricated” anti-regime actions in the UN that “are naturally compelling the army and people of the DPRK to launch the toughest counteraction to cope with them.” It has also threatened to expand its nuclear weapons arsenal in response to the report, and it has organized a mass rally in Kim Il-sung Square in Pyongyang, the capital, denouncing the UN resolution and vowing “to mercilessly retaliate against the US and its allies.”Showing that it had been flustered and disconcerted by the COI report, the regime has also launched a charm offensive, sending its foreign minister to the UN General Assembly for the first time in 15 years and a high-level diplomat to Brussels with offers to the European Union of renewed dialogue. It has also received James Clapper, the Obama administration’s director of national intelligence, in Pyongyang, and allowed him to escort two American political prisoners, Kenneth Bae and Matthew Todd Miler, back to the US.What has probably contributed to the North Korean regime’s consternation is that the COI report includes an extensive and comprehensive list of recommendations that open with a call for Pyongyang to “undertake profound political and institutional reforms without delay.” Other recommendations call upon the Security Council to refer the human rights situation in North Korea to the International Criminal Court, and upon China to end its policy of forcibly repatriating North Korean refugees. Overall the recommendations are very ambitious, and three in particular suggest practical ways of expanding international engagement on the issue.The first is the recommendation to form a contact group of donors and other countries with friendly ties to North Korea who would raise human-rights concerns in their ongoing bilateral relations. Scandinavian and other Western countries are obvious candidates for such a group, and they’re doing it already. I believe the main idea is to involve countries from the Global South—Africa, South and Southeast Asia, and Latin America—to show that human rights is not just a concern of the advanced democracies of the West. This would also include encouraging global democracy networks, like the nongovernmental World Movement for Democracy and the intergovernmental Community of Democracies, to raise the issue of North Korean human rights with their members and participants. Countries like Indonesia and Mongolia are natural candidates for such a group, but there are many other countries that could be involved, and the growing interest of the UN in the issue should encourage other countries to participate. The contact group might start by focusing on less politically sensitive issues like better access to educational opportunities for young North Koreans, access to immunization and better health care, and adequate nutrition for pregnant women and children.The second is the recommendation that states in the region should initiate something like a Helsinki process. The idea of developing a collective security system for northeast Asia that, like the one used for Cold War Europe, would include broad provisions for cooperation in humanitarian and other fields and also freer movement of people and information, has been around for some time. Had the six-party talks succeeded, such a process might have evolved out of one of the working groups. South Korea has now proposed the Northeast Asia Peace and Cooperation Initiative, or NAPCI, which is a framework for multilateral security cooperation. It is still at a very early stage, and a realistic next step might be trilateral consultations among South Korea, the US, and Japan, involving both government officials and policy specialists, to consider the feasibility of a collective security system that would have a “basket three” human-rights dimension in addition to provisions dealing with security issues and economic cooperation. It is useful to remember that the initial agenda for the Helsinki process began with discussions among NATO allies over the course of three years. Such a process might also offer a way to make progress on other recommendations of the COI, such as getting China to respect the principle of non-refoulement and stop forcibly repatriating North Korean refugees; and fostering both inter-Korean dialogue and people-to-people dialogue between North Korea and other countries.Finally, there is the recommendation to establish a structure to ensure that those most responsible for crimes against humanity are held accountable for their actions. Transitional justice is a central issue in every transition. It consists of measures both judicial and nonjudicial, including criminal prosecutions and truth commissions, to redress the legacy of massive human rights abuses—to punish those most guilty, to give a truthful and comprehensive accounting of the abuses, and to recognize the rights of the victims. The hope is that by striving for accountability and truth, a society can find a way to rebuild civic trust and the rule of law. Inevitably there will be punishment for crimes committed. But retribution is not enough. There must also be reconciliation.The abuses in North Korea have been so massive that it is hard to imagine what a process of transitional justice would look like. That, of course, is for the future. For now, there are two immediate tasks. First, because the North Korean regime is aware of the growing international concern about the crimes it has committed and may seek to destroy evidence, it is necessary to collect as much evidence and document as many crimes as possible. Second, it is important for those involved in the cause of North Korean human rights to begin studying the issue of transitional justice and to examine how it has been dealt with in post-Communist and other countries that have experienced transitions over the last three decades. Among the people who can provide guidance on how to undertake such an examination are commissioners Darusman and Biserko, each of whom has played a pivotal role in dealing with issues of transitional justice in their own respective countries. Such an examination will help people concerned about North Korea start thinking through a complex issue that will have to be addressed in the future if there is an opening. It would also be useful to find a way to communicate a nuanced and informed understanding of transitional justice to elites in North Korea, among whom there must be people who realize that the current system is doomed but who can’t imagine how they could survive a process of transition.It’s possible to conclude that the system in North Korea is so repressive that such a transition is impossible. But I don’t believe that’s true for three reasons. The first is the stunning success of South Korea, which is an existential rebuke to the North and shows that its system has no future. The second is that the isolation of the society and control system in the North are beginning to break down as a result of a number of factors. Among these are the increased movement of people across the border, the growth of local markets to replace the public distribution system, and greater access to information provided by shortwave radio broadcasts and the growing presence of data storage and messaging devices that are raising the consciousness of people at the grassroots level. The third is that the world—informed by the COI report, satellite photographs of the camps, and many other reports, books, and films—is more aware than ever before of the terrible abuses taking place, leading to new pressures for change that will only grow.The prospect for change in North Korea is enhanced by the role being played by civil-society organizations—many of them South Korean human-rights and free-media groups, and now also organizations run by North Korean defectors. The COI report benefited from the sustained human-rights advocacy of these groups, and it also invigorated these groups, many of which are actually reaching people in North Korea with information about the outside world and messages of hope. The COI report, therefore, not only got the international community to think more about how to build pressure, networks, and coalitions for human rights in North Korea. It also got human-rights and civil-society groups to think about how to strengthen the awareness within North Korea of the outside world and to provide information about the meaning of human rights and the kind of change that the UN is now calling for. If people within North Korea are aware of the growing international pressure for change, they will begin to find ways to express their own views, despite all the dangers and obstacles they face. In the end, change will come not only from outside pressure. It must also come from within.One way or another, a transition in North Korea is coming. The COI has made that more likely by putting the well-being of the people of North Korea on the agenda of the international community, something that’s never been done before. With its recommendations, it has also provided a road map that can be used in helping the people of North Korea achieve freedom. The task now is to keep up the pressure, implement the recommendations, and find ways to connect with the North Korean people. Though the COI has ended its work, the commissioners are all committed to staying engaged and building support for their recommendations. An important process has begun, but the real work lies ahead. The 2018 Theme is Democracy under Strain: Solutions for a Changing World.Andrew H. Card Jr., former White House chief of staff...Warsaw-based Polish Newspaper Gazeta Wyborcza sat down...Read Carl Gershman's opening remarks at IRI's Democracy...The democratic struggles that have been waged in this...The Forum 2000 Foundation pursues the legacy of Václav Havel by supporting...
Grantee Spotlight: Azizullah Royesh Top-10 Finalist for the Global Teacher Prize#February 19, 2015#Azizullah Royesh, former NED Reagan-Fascell fellow and current NED grantee in Afghanistan, is one of 10 finalists for the Varkey Foundation’s Global Teacher Prize. The prize is an annual $1 million award given to an innovative and exemplary teacher who has inspired their students and communities.Royesh became a teacher to instill a sense of hope and purpose for Afghan children who were struggling with poverty, war, and life in refugee camps. When he was 10, the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan forced his family to flee to Pakistan. While in Pakistan, he could not keep up his education, so he used any spare time that he had to teach himself. Even though he has only five years of formal education, he has become an inspiring example for education in Afghanistan and around the world.Royesh established the Marefat (which translates to “insight” and “knowledge”) School for Afghan Refugees in Pakistan in 1994. When the Taliban regime fell in 2001, Royesh moved the school to Kabul, Afghanistan. As of 2014, the school had 4,000 students, of which 44% were girls. NED has been supporting Royesh and Marefat initiatives since 2012.If awarded the prize, Royesh will use the funds to renovate and expand the Marefat School. He will also launch a professional teacher training academy so that Marefat’s education model can be expanded and applied throughout the country.Learn more about Royesh and the Marefat School here:Tabish Forugh, a Reagan-Fascell Fellow at the National...Brian Joseph has been named vice president for Asia,...Krishna Kumari's election to the upper house of Pakistan...NED will host a discussion of recent developments featuring...
How Russia Props Up Putin in the Polls#February 2, 2015#By Christopher Walker and Robert Orttung, as it appeared in the Washington Post on January 30Christopher Walker is executive director of the International Forum for Democratic Studies at the National Endowment for Democracy. Robert Orttung is assistant director of the Institute for European, Russian and Eurasian Studies at the George Washington University’s Elliott School for International Affairs.Russian President Vladimir Putin’s popularity appears to resist the laws of political physics. Despite the price of oil sinking below $50 a barrel and the Russian economy falling into a tailspin, Putin’s approval ratings hover above 80 percent, seemingly defying ­gravity.But the numbers should not be taken at face value.Deeper scrutiny is especially important because the more Putin’s sky-high popularity ratings are mentioned, the more they become accepted wisdom. Western news media and political analysts frequently report on them without providing critically needed context.First, Putin’s popularity has been achieved in an information vacuum. An informal set of censorship rules, actively enforced by the Kremlin, makes it virtually impossible to discuss important issues and question official actions through the mass media. Today, independent voices rarely reach into Russian living rooms over the airwaves. In recent months, the government has tightened its noose, pressuring even outlets serving niche audiences, such as the news Web site Lenta.ru, the newspaper Vedomosti and the Moscow station TV Rain. Meanwhile, feverish state propaganda feeds Russian television audiences an unchallenged and delusive flow of information designed to show the country’s leaders in the most positive light while blaming problems on “fascists,” “foreign agents” and “fifth columns.”Second, Putin’s political repression makes certain that only the bravest and most self-sacrificing individuals challenge his rule. Emerging opposition leaders are either removed, smeared or co-opted before they gain sufficient popularity to present a threat. A popularity figure of 80-plus percent simply tells us that Russians cannot conceive of an alternative to Putin.Third, well-educated professionals are emigrating from Russia in massive numbers. According to Rosstat, Russia’s federal statistics service, more than 300,000 people left the country from 2012 to 2013, a migration that tellingly coincides with Putin’s stage-managed return for a third presidential term; the rate of departures climbed even higher after the annexation of Crimea last year. By comparison, approximately 70,000 people left from 2010 to 2011. The cream of Russian society is voting with its feet, leaving a stultifying, ever more corrupt environment for greener pastures that allow them to productively apply their talents.Fourth is the reliance on diversionary tactics, such as the annexation of Crimea, to deflect attention from the country’s deepening economic problems. In the past, the Kremlin has relied on high oil prices to improve living standards. Putin’s sudden embrace of nationalism and territorial expansionism suggests a desperate gambit to keep his numbers from slipping.All of this should tell us something. Today, the Kremlin must work far harder than it has to manufacture regime support. Its fiercer propaganda and harsher repression suggest that the Russian population is less willing to accept Putin. To compensate, the state apparatus has been shifted into overdrive.While the fear and opacity that shrouds the Russian system prevents our knowing the true extent of Putin’s popularity, we do know that the incumbent authorities intend to remain in power indefinitely, regardless of their performance. Ordinary Russians understand this as well. The massive state investments in coercion and manipulation are necessary because the country’s leadership lacks a true democratic mandate.Applying closer scrutiny to Putin’s ratings is critical because Western observers often fall into the trap of viewing Putin the way they would a democratically elected leader. Despite the coercive context that underlies Putin’s ratings, Western media all too often report survey findings blithely, sometimes even with a sense of fascination and awe, suggesting that politicians in democracies would be grateful to enjoy such high levels of support.But this presupposes that envious democratic leaders would want to crush the fundamental elements of democracy, including independent media, civil society and political opposition, to achieve Putin-like “popularity.” We should not accept a definition of popularity that is achieved via truncheon, censorship and propaganda.Putin may well retain the support of certain segments of the Russian population. But given the degree of state-controlled “manufacturing” inherent in generating his “popularity,” uncritical reporting of Putin’s stratospherically high approval numbers does a disservice by feeding into the misguided notion that he is unassailable.Shrewd leaders understand well that the perception of power molds its influence in reality. The Kremlin’s propaganda outlets toil relentlessly to shape this perception for their captive domestic audiences. Observers beyond the Kremlin’s reach do not have this excuse and should take a far more critical view of Putin’s standing.
JoD at 25 Years: "The Rise of Competitive Authoritarianism"#January 15, 2015#In anticipation of celebrating the 25th anniversary issue in January 2015, the Journal of Democracy is revisiting some of the most influential articles on the study of democratization ever published in the Journal.In their Journal of Democracy article, “The Rise of Competitive Authoritarianism” (April 2002), Steven Levitsky and Lucan Way sought to move the debate about democratization beyond the “transition paradigm” by identifying a new type of regime that had emerged in the post-Cold War era.As scholars wrestled with how to classify the wide variety of new regime types located somewhere on the spectrum between liberal democracy and traditional authoritarianism, Levitsky and Way argued that many of these efforts reflected a “democratizing bias” that assumed all these countries were undergoing a prolonged transition to democracy. The hybrid regimes that they categorized as “competitive authoritarian” maintain significant “arenas of contestation” between incumbent leadership and political opposition. Yet incumbents violate the rules of electoral competition so egregiously that these regimes should be viewed as subtypes of authoritarianism rather than democracy. Noting that competitive authoritarian regimes could develop after the decay or collapse of authoritarian regimes as well as through the decay of a democratic regime, Levitsky and Way suggested that competitive authoritarian regimes had the potential to move in either a more democratic or a more authoritarian direction.By highlighting the emergence of this species of hybrid regimes and emphasizing their uncertain trajectories, Levitsky and Way made an important contribution to democracy research. Their terminology has come to be widely accepted among scholars of democracy, and their analysis still remains a starting point for debate about the nature and prospects of these “in-between” regimes.Download “The Rise of Competitive Authoritarianism” [PDF]The Journal of Democracy is the world’s leading publication on the theory and practice of democracy. Since its inaugural issue appeared in January 1990, it has engaged both activists and intellectuals in critical discussions of the problems and prospects of democracy around the world. Today, the Journal is at the center of debate on the major social, political, and cultural challenges that confront both emerging and established democracies. The Journal is published by Johns Hopkins University Press on behalf of the National Endowment for Democracy’s International Forum for Democratic Studies.